1
                             [self-titled]
                   Copyright© Cian Sean McGee
                          CSM Publishing
                  Araraquara, São Paulo, Brazil 2021
                            First Edition

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any
form by any electronic or mechanical means including photocopying,
recording, scanning or digital information storage and retrieval without
                      permission from the author.



                        ISBN: 9798762325875


                   Skull Painting: Stein Roger Sordal

                   Everything Else: C. Sean McGee


        Support independent art before it cuts its own ear off.




                                   2
3
Charlie and The Great Flood                6 -17
Roger and Maria                            18 - 24
Harrold with an E                          25 - 32
R.G.B                                      33 - 43
The Terrible Tragedy of The Three Bears    44 - 52
Red Riding Blood                           53 - 68
All Those Ghosts                           69 - 81
The Time Machine I – 3x+1                  82 - 88
The Amusement Park                         89 - 97
The Man in the Dress                       98 - 106
The Activists                              107 - 117
The Last Man on Earth                      118 - 125
The Eulogy of Prudence Birdwhistle         126 - 131
Mary, The Butcher of Salisbury             132 - 134
The Tortoise and The Hare                  135 - 140
The Crow in the Well                       141 - 147
The Time Machine II – a small glass cube   148 - 157
The Time Machine III – the mirror          158 - 159
The Son of The Snake                       160 - 166
What Comes with a Robot Body?              167 - 177
Dude, Your Anatomy!                        178 - 194
The Policy                                 195 - 204
The Girlfriend Experience                  205 - 215
The Farm                                   216 - 229
The Noble Mountain                         230 - 237
Die Stanley Die                            238 - 245
Mabel and Abel                             246 - 255
Girl                                       256 - 265
Mallory                                    266 - 273

                         4
    you die at the end




5
6
Once upon a time, there was a small raindrop that lived in a small
house in a small town inside of a small cloud; one that ﬂoated
about high in the light blue sky. Charlie was his name, and he was
the happiest little raindrop in the cloud, maybe even the whole sky.
       “Charlie, honey, time to wake up!”
       That was Charlie’s favourite thing in the world to do – wak-
ing up. That and going to school, of course. How awesome was it,
then, that he got to do both of them every single day!
       “Yay! Another day,” shouted Charlie. “Woohoo! Being alive
is the best.”
       It was as if when he was asleep each night, somebody snuck
into his room with a straw and blew a giant bubble of joy inside
him, because every morning when he woke, he would bounce
around his bedroom, almost as if he were a big old balloon. Wak-
ing up was awesome, it really was. There was no better feeling,
except, of course, going to school – that was just the best!
       You see, at school, Charlie got to see his best friends. They
were all raindrops just like him. Some of them were big raindrops
and some of them were small, but like Charlie, they were all made
of water, and that was what mattered. He had so many friends, too
– enough to ﬁll a hundred swimming pools. He loved them and
they loved him.
       “Big day today, Charlie,” said Mum. “Are you excited?”
       Charlie had almost forgotten. Today was the big day. He’d
thought it was just a normal day.
       “Your mum’s right, you know,” said Dad. “It is a big day
today.”
       He made it sound so daunting as if there was no way it would
be fun.
       “Did I ever tell you about your uncle?”
       Charlie settled down and paid attention to his dad, just as
he always did, whenever he listened to this story. The pride of the
family, his dad called it. A story he told a hundred times a day, every
day of the week. It was a story that Charlie never tired of hearing,
just as Dad never tired of telling it.


                                  7
       “He was right about your age, he was – Uncle Cliff. He was
the pride of my daddy’s eyes too. Of everyone really. The pride of
our family, he was. And still is.”
       Mum put her hand on Dad’s shoulder and wept a tear, but
not a sad one mind you.
       “The bravest raindrop in the cloud,” said Dad. “You know
what he was made of ?”
       Of course, he knew; the same thing he was made of every
other time he’d told this story.
       “What’s that, Dad?” said Charlie, pretending he had no idea.
       “Courage,” said Dad. “He was made of courage.”
       “Courage,” said Charlie in awe as if hearing it for the ﬁrst
time. “Wow.”
       “That’s right. Your uncle didn’t just rain in any old pond or
puddle, not like any ordinary raindrop. No, sirree.”
       “What did he do, dad?” said Charlie, on the edge of his seat.
“What did he do?”
       “Your uncle Cliff put out the great ﬁre,” said Dad.
       “Wow.”
       “That’s right. He didn’t wait. He didn’t ﬂinch. He wasn’t
scared one bit. He just jumped off this small cloud and ﬂew right
down on top of that raging inferno. And you know what he did?”
       “What’s that, dad?”
       “He saved the day. Your uncle, Cliff. The pride of our fam-
ily.”
       Charlie beamed with joy. He loved hearing this story.
       “One day we’ll be telling that story about you,” said Mum.
       She kissed him on the cheek and passed him his packed
lunch.
       “You think?” asked Charlie. “You think I could be the pride
of the family too?”
       “I know so,” said Mum.
       Ever since he was born, Charlie knew that one day a time
would come when he would have to leave his small home, to leave
his small town, and as crazy as this sounds, to leave the small cloud

                                 8
too. Yep, that’s right! They expected him to jump off the cloud!
       Crazy, right?
       But that’s just what raindrops did. It’s what they were born
to do. When the time came, they jumped off their cloud with gazil-
lions of other raindrops, down unto the Earth below.
       “Be who you are meant to be.”
       That was the motto. It was what everyone said - his teacher,
his mum, his dad; everyone.
       You could be relief for a farmer, maybe; a farmer whose
crops and cattle had been parched, thirsted, and hard done by a
long and terrible drought; or you could be delight for a forest;
one whose canopy reaches almost as high as the clouds, ﬁlling the
streams and rivers that snaked through it bringing sustenance to all
the big and little creatures who lived inside; or you could be joy to
a small child in a playground, splashing about in a big old pool of
mud. You could be anything at all.
       “Be who you are meant to be.”
       That’s all anyone ever said.
       “Be who you were meant to be. Be who you are meant to
be.”
       But that’s the thing, you see; poor Charlie didn’t know who
he wanted to be.
       “What if I don’t know what I want to be?” he asked.
       “You’ll know,” said Dad, cryptically.
       “You’ll ﬁgure it out,” said Mum, as if that made it better.
       “What if I’m not relief ?” said Charlie. “What if I’m not de-
light?”
       The poor boy was saddled with worry.
       “What if I’m not Joy?”
       The idea was absurd. It was all he had been taught to be. It
was all he could be. Yet, here he was, thinking of himself in the
future and imaging a far worse predicament.
       “What if I’m a ﬂood?” he said.
       The thought alone was terrifying. Dad, though, just laughed.
       “You’ll be ﬁne, son. Just stay in your line, stick with your
friends, and it’ll all work out. You’ll see. There’s no need to worry

                                 9
at all.”
        He made it sound so easy.
        “We’d better be getting along,” said Mum. “Today is the big
day, and we don’t want to delay.”
        And it was. Today was the day that Charlie would jump out
of the cloud. Today was the day that he would ﬁnd out who he was
born to be. It should have been the happiest day in his life, too. It
should have, but it wasn’t.
        “I wish it were yesterday,” said Charlie. “I really do.”
        You see, Charlie didn’t want to grow up. He didn’t want to
change. Everything was perfect already as it was. School was fun.
Playing chasey in the schoolyard was better. Why couldn’t he just
be a kid forever?
        “Well?” said Mum in her wisdom. “Even if it were yesterday,
it would still be today.”
        Charlie didn’t really know what she meant but it stopped him
from worrying.
        “Look,” she said. “There’s all your friends.”
        There, by the edge of the cloud were gazillions of raindrops,
all of them bouncing around trying to peer over the edge; their
teacher – Mr Gota – waved his arms around like a crazy person,
trying to get them all in single ﬁle.
        “Charlie, come with us,” said one group.
        “Charlie, come with us,” said another.
        Each group formed a line along the edge of the cloud, each
one with a different place and purpose. Some of them would go on
to bring rain to farmers, those whose livestock and crops had been
parched by a lingering drought, while others would ﬁll lakes and
streams, and quench the thirst of the prettiest of ﬂowers and the
tallest of trees. Some would even make big puddles, the kind that
children loved to play in, so they could get all muddy and have fun.
        “Charlie, come with us,” everyone shouted.
        They were all so happy, so sure of who they were going to
be.
        “I’m not ready,” said Charlie.
        “Nobody is ever ready,” said Mum. “No matter how much

                                 10
much they plan. When it’s time, even the bravest - even the most
prepared - wishes they had just one minute more.”
       “But what if I’m not like Uncle Cliff ?”
       He looked at Dad as he said it. Uncle Cliff was the pride of
the family. He was the pride of the whole town. All Charlie ever
wanted was to make his dad proud.
       “What if I don’t bring relief ? What if I don’t bring delight?
What if I don’t bring joy? What if I rain on someone’s parade?
What if I don’t make you proud?”
       “You worry too much. You’ll do ﬁne,” said Mum. “Your
Dad loves you. He just wants to see you happy. We both do. It’s
just a choice.”
       “What if I make a mistake?” asked Charlie, sounding more
than unsure; sounding scared. “What if I choose wrong? What if I
don’t know who I want to be?”
       Mum smiled and kissed him on the cheek.
       “You are who you are,” she said. “And that’s who you will
forever be.”
       Again, Charlie had no idea what she meant, but again it
stopped him from worrying.
       “I love you, dear,” she shouted as he went to join his friends.
       Charlie didn’t look back for he knew that if he did, he would
only cry and want to go home. Instead, he pretended he was as
brave and courageous as Uncle Cliff.
       “I wish it were yesterday,” he said to himself.
       “Ten seconds,” shouted Mr Gota.
       He had spent their entire lives preparing them for this mo-
ment, Mr Gota that is; forming them into the raindrops they were,
and the raindrops they would soon become. If he was proud, he
did a great job at hiding it. His face was shaped like a starting gun
and his voice, as he shouted at every line to get ready and get set,
sounded like a referee’s whistle.
       “Five seconds,” he shouted.
       Charlie peered over the edge of the cloud. Below him, he
could see hundreds of other clouds, and on the edges of those
clouds, , gazillions of raindrops just like him, all lined up and not

                                 11
only ready but wanting to jump – all of them so completely sure of
who they were and who they wanted to be.
       Yet all Charlie wanted was just one more minute.
       “One second!”
       It was so far down. So, so far.
       “Make me proud,” shouted Dad.
       And that was what startled Charlie and had him trip and fall
off of the cloud. He wasn’t even in a line. Mr Gota hadn’t even
shouted ‘Jump’. By the time he had, Charlie was already falling –
alone.
       “I wish it were yesterday,” screamed Charlie, as he fell from
the sky.
       It was a long way down. It was so long in fact that, before
he had even gotten halfway, Charlie had stopped his screaming and
shouting, and was instead back to his quiet and pensive worrying.
       “Don’t be a ﬂood,” he thought. “Don’t be a ﬂood. Don’t be
a ﬂood.”
       Around him, hundreds of millions of raindrops – gazillions
even –were raining down from the sky, all of them huddled to-
gether in their groups; Charlie, the only one who was alone.
       One group sang a song as they rained down. They looked
and sounded so merry.
       “What are you going to be?” shouted Charlie.
       “Joy,” shouted one of the raindrops in reply.
       That alone made all of the raindrops even happier.
       “What about you?” asked the raindrop to Charlie.
       Charlie didn’t know. All he hoped was that he wouldn’t be a
ﬂood.
       Most of the groups were much the same, singing songs full
of jubilant and merry wonder. Most, not all. There were a few
ragtag groups. Groups that were made up of angry and rebellious
raindrops; raindrops that liked neither relief, delight, nor joy – rain-
drops that instead, set out to do the exact opposite.
        “Hey kid,” shouted one of the raindrops. “We’re gonna rain
on a wedding,” said the raindrop. “Totally ruin their day. It’s gonna


                                  12
be awesome. Wanna come with us?”
        “No, thank you,” shouted Charlie politely.
        “Your loss,” said the rebellious raindrop.
        Charlie was just glad they didn’t beat him up.
        “I wish it were yesterday,” he said again.
        Charlie could see the ground now. It was still so very far
away, but for the ﬁrst time he could make out the farm, the forest,
and the playground. Each was so close to one another and yet he
felt so far from either one.
        “Charlie!”
        To his right, Charlie could see all of his friends huddled to-
gether.
        “Come with us,” they shouted.
        “I can’t,” said Charlie in reply.
        He couldn’t either. He was too far away and because he was
just a single drop of rain, the wind was taking him further from his
friends; further still, from the farm, the forest, or the playground.
It was taking him to the river, somewhere no raindrop ever wanted
to go.
        “You can’t go to the river,” shouted his friends.
        “I know,” shouted Charlie in reply. “But the wind has taken
me; there’s nothing I can do. I wish it were yesterday,” he shouted.
“I wish I were with you.”
        The wind had taken him - so very far. There was no way he
could make his way back to them. There was nothing at all that he
could do.
        “We love you, Charlie,” shouted his friends.
        But Charlie couldn’t hear them. He was falling faster now.
And below him, instead of a farm, a forest, or a playground, there
was a raging river, one that sounded as clamorous and ﬁerce and
ruinous as it looked – just a torrent of unstoppable destruction.
Overwhelmed by the noise and afraid to look down, poor Charlie
shut his eyes.
        “I’m sorry Dad,” he said. “I’m sorry, Mum. I wish I had been
better. I wish I had been more like Uncle Cliff. I really wish it were


                                 13
yesterday.’
       Then he splashed into the river.
       The torrent raged. It swirled and swarmed, and spun Charlie
round and round and round, spitting him into the air a thousand
times, just to suck him back under right after. He was dizzy, deliri-
ous, and desperate to escape. But there was no escape. He was the
river as much as he was himself.
       “Hi,” said a drop of water.
       Her name was Stacey.
       “I’m Stacey,” she said.
       She was so composed, considering how topsy turvy things
were.
       “What’s your name?” she said.
       “I’m Charlie,” said Charlie.
       He, though, was not.
       “Isn’t this so much fun?” said Stacey.
       It was one of those questions, though, that wasn’t a question.
       “I wish it were yesterday,” shouted Charlie.
       “Are you not having fun?” she asked. “Don’t you like rap-
ids?”
       It was a fair question. Charlie was a raindrop, and nothing
made raindrops happier than jumping, and tumbling, and rolling
around. It was the most fun thing in the world to do. And every
raindrop loved to have fun. Heck, that’s all Charlie did at school
every day, and it was all he did when he got home and played by
himself – jumping and tumbling and rolling around.
       And yet here he was, in a raging river with a billion gazillion
other raindrops, all of them doing the one thing he loved more
than anything else - jumping and tumbling and rolling around - and
poor old Charlie was glum.
       “I’m worried,” he said.
       He sounded it too.
       “Worried? About what?”
       “What we will become,” said Charlie.
       Stacey laughed.
       “You’re funny,” she said. “I like you.”

                                 14
        Charlie’s face, though, was shaped like a question mark.
        “Oh, you’re serious?” said Stacey. “I thought you were jok-
ing.”
       She looked a little puzzled herself.
       “It’s all I can think about,” said Charlie.
       “So just think about something else,” said Stacey. “Or better
yet, don’t think at all!”
       Then she did a whole bunch of cartwheels.
       “Aren’t you worried?” asked Charlie.
       Stacey grabbed Charlie’s hands and spun him as fast as she
could. Round and round and round they went, faster and faster
each time. Soon enough they were spinning so fast that everything
was a blur. They couldn’t see anything. They couldn’t hear anything.
And when they got fast enough, they couldn’t even think.
       “This is amazing,” shouted Charlie.
       For a second it was like being back on the cloud, playing with
his best friends. He felt like a kid again – joyful, spirited, and free.
The only thing that mattered was right now, and right now he was
having the most fun he had ever had in his life.
       “I love you, Charlie,” shouted Stacey, letting go of his hands.
       Charlie kept spinning and spinning and spinning, smiling the
whole time. He hadn’t even noticed the river splitting in two. He
hadn’t seen Stacey ﬂow to one side and he to another.
       “I love you, Stacey,” he shouted, reaching out to grab her
hands.
       “Who’s Stacey?”
       It wasn’t Stacey’s hands he was holding.
       “Who are you?” said Charlie.
       “I’m Jeff,” said Jeff.
       “Jeff ? Where’s Stacey?”
       “Who’s Stacey?”
       “She’s a raindrop. She’s my best friend.”
       “Really? I’m a raindrop. We should be best friends too.”
       He made a pretty good case. There was no reason why they
shouldn’t be. After all, they were both raindrops, and both of them
loved jumping and tumbling and rolling around more than they did

                                  15
anything else.
        “Best friends forever!” shouted Jeff.
        “Best friends forever!” shouted Charlie in reply.
        Pretty soon it wasn’t just Charlie and Jeff, there were at least
half a gazillion raindrops all holding hands, all of them jumping
and tumbling and rolling around. And they were all shouting the
exact same thing.
        “Best friends forever!”
        They were having so much fun that Charlie had forgotten
altogether about worrying, which was something he always did. It
was important to worry. It meant you cared about the future be-
cause you were thinking about all the things that could go wrong.
And here he was, in the middle of a raging river, one that could just
as easily become a ﬂood, and he wasn’t worried at all.
        “I’m having the time of my life,” he shouted.
        The gazillions of other raindrops all agreed. And so did the
other gazillion that joined them just around the river’s bend. There
were so many raindrops now that the river had swollen, so much
that it spilled out over the banks, onto the land that surrounded it.
        “Oh no,” thought Charlie. “I’m a ﬂood. I’m going to bring
ruin and heartache to the world. I’m going to bring shame to my
mum and dad.”
        Charlie started to cry. The more he cried, though, the more
swollen the river became. And the more swollen the river, the more
the little raindrop wept.
        “I want to go home,” he shouted. “I wish it were yesterday.”
        The river didn’t just spill over the banks now; it ﬂooded the
entire land. Pushed out over the edge, Jeff and the other raindrops
all shouted with glee: “We love you, Charlie.”
        The poor little raindrop didn’t hear though. The river raged
and roared so loud that even his own cries went unheard. Out-
wards Charlie went, swept by a magniﬁcent current, out over the
land, almost tearing out every tree, and whipping the soil up like
grains of sand in a cyclonic wind.
        Rife with shame and guilt, Charlie held his breath every sec-
ond of the way. He shut his eyes too, not wanting to see what kind

                                  16
of terror and devastation awaited him. When he did ﬁnally open
them though, it wasn’t misery that awaited him. It wasn’t untold
death and destruction. It wasn’t chaos, devastation, and ruin. No.
It was joy.
        It was joy, delight, and relief.
        “Papa,” said a young girl, cupping her hands to take enough
water to splash her father. “It’s a miracle.”
        It had been a particularly dry year and neither the girl nor her
papa had thought that there would be enough rain this season to
engorge the river sufﬁciently enough so that its ﬂood might reach
their tiny farm and quench the thirst of their sunburned crops.
Both had been beset with worry, so much so that neither the girl
nor her papa had ever once seen the other smile. Such was the spell
of misery the drought had brought that even their tears were dry.
Or they had been, at least, for the tears that ran down the young
girl’s face – and on that of her father too – were tears of happiness
as much as they were, tears of relief.
        “You are right my daughter,” said her papa. “The gods have
blessed us with plentiful rain and a bountiful ﬂood. What a delight
to see so much water. Enough for all of our crops. Enough for
everyone’s crops. It is a miracle indeed. The gods are smiling. The
gods are kind.”
         The young girl held a single drop of rain in her hands:
Charlie. And she looked at him as if he were the greatest gift in
the world. And Charlie looked at her in much the same light. The
young girl smiled at him, and Charlie smiled back. All his life he had
been worried about who he would become, and now, at the end of
his journey, it was patently clear.
        “I was me all along.”




                                  17
18
Once upon a time, there was a big court where two children played,
on either end, kicking a ball against a wall: alone, on their own, by
themselves. Roger and Maria were their names, and for as long as
either one could remember, Maria played on one side of the court
while Roger played on the other.
       Each and every morning, Roger and Maria did the exact
same thing. They jumped out of their beds, scoffed down their
cereal, kissed their mums and dads on the cheeks, grabbed their
footballs, and ran to the court to play.
       And every day, without fail, without question, without ever
wondering why, Maria would go to one end of the court and Roger
would go to the other. And there they would stay, until their mums
and dads called them home, kicking a ball against a wall; alone, on
their own, by themselves.
       And at the end of the day, just like every day, they’d race
home, kiss their mums and dads on the cheek, scoff down their
dinner, and then go to their beds, sleeping safe and sound with
their footballs on their pillows beside them.
       They were the happiest kids in the world, and the court was,
by far, their most favourite place to be. It had everything they need-
ed – a ground to keep the ball off and a wall to kick it against. The
only other thing was, of course, their footballs, which for Roger
and Maria, were more than just bouncy toys; their footballs were
their best friends. They didn’t just love playing football, they loved
themselves while they were playing it. Nothing in the world made
them happier.
       Both were exceptionally good players and capable of the
most fantastic stunts and tricks. Maria, for example, could kick the
ball in the air with her foot over seven hundred and seventy-six
times without it ever touching the ground – not once. Not only
that, but she could catch it on the back of her neck! That was her
special trick.
       And Roger, too, was just as good. He could keep the ball off
the ground for just as long, except he used his head and his knees;
and his special trick was to balance the ball on the very tips of his
toes. The two of them really were exceptional players and both

                                 19
were really good at their stunts and tricks, if not the best in the
whole entire world.
       It didn’t matter if the sun was shining or if the sky was
smeared with black thunderous clouds and held hostage by the
threat of rain, Roger and Maria were always there, at either end
of the court, kicking a ball against a wall: alone, on their own, by
themselves.
       They didn’t depend on the weather just as they didn’t have to
depend on anyone else. It was just the way they liked it. They could
play whatever game they wanted, whenever they wanted, and they
could make up the rules as they went along. It wasn’t just easier that
way, it was better. As long as they had a wall and a ball, they didn’t
need anybody else.
       One day, though, a day that was neither sunny nor cloudy,
neither bright nor dull, but instead, a weary and woeful mix of the
two, both Maria and Roger mastered their special tricks; she with
the ball on her neck, and he with the ball balanced, with all the
grace of a ballerina, on the very tips of his toes. It should have
been the greatest day of their lives; their celebration should have
lasted weeks. But it wasn’t and it didn’t. It was neither the greatest
day in their lives nor was it the worst – it was both.
       When Maria perfected her trick – catching and then balanc-
ing the ball on her neck - she got so excited and so full of joy that
she was like a pressure pot that was about to explode. It didn’t even
matter that the ball fell on the ground right after; heck, she had
never imagined getting it up there in the ﬁrst place. She wanted to
tell everyone in the world. She’d never felt like this before. She’d
never been this happy. She just wanted to squeal.
       She didn’t, though. Instead, she sighed.
       Roger, too. When he caught the ball on the very tips of his
toes and held it there for more than a second, he was dumbfound-
ed – such was his shock and disbelief. Then, when he realised just
what it was that he had done, his blood felt electric; sparks were
bursting out of his ears. He too wanted to squeal, but he too didn’t.
       Instead, like Maria, he sighed.
       It was in that moment, you see, on the happiest day of Roger

                                 20
and Maria’s lives that it had become dauntingly clear: there was no
lonelier feeling in the world than having the most amazing news to
share, but no one to share it with.
        And for the ﬁrst time ever, Roger and Maria felt sad.
        It was a terrible feeling. It was the worst in the world. But
like all feelings, it passed. And soon enough, Roger and Maria were
back-breaking new records and inventing new stunts and tricks; so
many that it would be a shame to mention just one for the simple
fact that it would be impossible to name them all. And they were
happy again, on either end of the court, kicking a ball against a
wall: alone, on their own, by themselves.
        And it was the same, years later when they were grown-ups
too.
        Every day, Roger and Maria jumped out of their beds,
scoffed down their breakfasts, sent emojis to their mums and dads,
grabbed their footballs, and then ran to the court to play. And just
like when they were kids, Maria went to one end of the court while
Roger went to the other.
        One day, though, on a day that was neither normal nor
strange, the most incredible, the most impossible, the most stupen-
dously unexpected thing happened.
        Just as Maria was about to beat another one of her records
and keep the ball in the air for seven hundred and seventy-seven
times, she got distracted and the ball not only fell to the ground,
but it knocked against the wall and bounced back behind her – all
the way to Roger’s side of the court.
        Shocked as they were, both Roger and Maria turned and
faced each other. It was the ﬁrst time, for as long as they could re-
member, that either one had ever had their backs against the wall.
Neither one really knew what to do.
        So, Maria smiled and then Roger smiled back.
        “Hi,” said Maria.
        “Hi,” said Roger.
        “My name’s Maria,” said Maria.
        “My name’s Roger,” said Roger.
        “Hi, Roger.”

                                 21
        “Hi, Maria.”
        Roger was a little nervous; actually, he was petriﬁed. He
had seen Maria do some of her stunts and tricks and had always
thought she was an exceptional player, probably even the best in
the world. The only thing he wanted right now was to tell her just
that, but as he looked at her and she at him, for whatever reason,
he couldn’t. Instead, he just smiled, and Maria smiled back; because
she too wanted to tell Roger that she thought his stunts and tricks
were the best she had ever seen but she was nervous too, actually
she was petriﬁed. And for the same silly reason that Roger couldn’t
speak, neither could she.
        They stared at each other for a good minute or two, but it
felt like a day, a week, or a month. They would have stayed there
forever were it not for a gust of wind that blew the ball against
Roger’s foot. Without thinking, he kicked it over to Maria. It was
a pretty good kick too, and it felt so much better than kicking the
ball against the wall. Maria, much to Roger’s surprise, kicked the
ball right back.
        Roger couldn’t believe it – neither could Maria, to be honest.
And without a word said between them, soon enough they were
kicking the ball back and forth, having the time of their lives. Nei-
ther one could have ever imagined having this much fun without
a wall.
        “How many times can you keep it off the ground?” asked
Roger.
        “My record is seven hundred and seventy-six,” said Maria.
“What’s yours?”
        “The same,” said Roger, though his was six hundred and
ninety-four.
        “Do you wanna try and make a record together?” asked Ma-
ria.
        “That’s a great idea,” said Roger.
        And that was it. From that point on, neither Roger nor Maria
kicked a ball against a wall ever again. They never played alone too.
Every morning they jumped out of their beds, scoffed down their
cereal, sent emojis to their mums and dads, and then ran to the

                                 22
court where, always wanting to be ﬁrst, they waited at the gate for
the other to arrive.
        At ﬁrst, Roger and Maria could only keep the ball off the
ground two or three times. It wasn’t so easy having to depend
upon another person. It could be frustrating too. Every time it fell,
though, they laughed and gave each other high-ﬁves, and without
much ado, they tried again – and again, and again. They tried so
much that soon enough they had broken both their records, keep-
ing the ball in the air over a thousand times, something they could
never have done if they were kicking a ball against a wall; alone, on
their own, by themselves.
        Both Roger and Maria didn’t just love playing football, they
loved themselves while they were playing it. And it wasn’t until they
had played football with each other that they both realised that love
is a verb – it is an act of giving. And that, just like keeping the ball
off the ground, it wasn’t always easy to give love, just as it wasn’t
always easy to receive it.
        Sometimes, for no reason whatsoever, the ball just fell to the
ground. But neither one ever blamed the other, and neither one
ever blamed themselves. They merely kicked the ball and started
counting again. They knew they had to rely on each other, not only
to keep the ball in the air but also to pick each other up whenever
it fell – and it would always fall. It had to or else there wouldn’t be
a record.
        And it didn’t matter too if at the end of every day they got
a brand-new record because no matter how many times they kept
it off the ground, no matter how good they had been that day, the
very next day, they would always start back from one.
        And then one day, on a day that had the right amount of sun
and the right amount of soft wispy clouds, Roger and Maria broke
their biggest record ever. Not only that, but they also invented a
new trick. Both got excited, dumbfounded, and full of joy. Both
felt like like pressure pots about to explode. Both had blood that
felt electric and sparks bursting from their ears.
         This time, though, instead of sighing, they both squealed,
loud and triumphant, and they jumped around together holding

                                  23
hands shouting, “Yipeeee” and “We did it” and “I love you.”
       And then they froze – dead still, staring in each other’s eyes;
petriﬁed. The words had just fallen out of their mouths. Both felt
exposed, vulnerable, and alone. If the ﬁrst time they stared at each
other had felt like a day, a week, or a month, well then this felt like
an eternity.
        “I think you’re an exceptional player,” they both said at the
very same time. “I always have. You do the most amazing stunts
and tricks.”
       And then just like that, they hugged and kissed.
       And at the end of that day, just like the end of every day to
come, Roger and Maria ran home, sent emojis to their mums and
dads, scoffed down their dinner, and then went to bed with their
best friend and the loves of their lives sleeping on the pillow beside
them, while the football that they had bought together, sat neatly
at the end of the bed.




                                  24
25
Once upon a time in a quiet part of the world, there was a quiet
street, a wonderful street in fact; one that was paved with cobble-
stones and furnished with a halcyon river, a noble and majestic
tree, and a quaint wooden bench, one etched with the initials of
besotted lovers.
       And every day that quiet and wonderful street came to life
as besotted lovers, sitting on the quaint wooden bench, discoursed
passionately about politics, philosophy, and romance; whilst be-
neath the noble and majestic tree, a young family made their picnic,
staring dotingly at their children who climbed that tree in joyful
reverence; and ﬁnally, standing in quiet contemplation, an old lady
in mourning stared into the halcyon river as her thoughts and wor-
ries were swept far, far away.
       It really was a quiet and wonderful street.
       But one night – a night that was as dark as it was villainous
- there came a gang of no-good kids; kids with mean and bullish
faces and wearing pots & pans for shoes; all of them dressed from
head to toe in ragged black clothes – the kind that smelled like rot-
ten eggs and skunks and grandad’s wet farts.
       There were four of them in all, three boys and a girl, and
they marched down this quiet and wonderful street, stamping their
feet and clanging those pots & pans as they went along, making the
most ungodly racket.
       When the no-good kids saw the quaint wooden bench, the
one etched with the initials of besotted lovers, they all stuck their
tongues out and shouted rude and horrible things like ‘Yuk’ and
‘Eww’ and ‘That’s gross’.
       And then, when they saw the noble and majestic tree, they
hissed and cursed – their faces vile and vulgar; one boy even going
so far as to tear off one of its branches.
       And ﬁnally, when they saw the halcyon river, they each stood
side by side with their mean and bullish faces and took turns spit-
ting in the water.
       They really were a gang of no-good kids.
       When they were done hissing and spitting and sticking their


                                 26
tongues out, the no-good kids marched down to a wall at the end
of the street, one that had only recently been painted. And there,
one of the kids took out a can of black spray paint and they took
turns grafﬁtiing the meanest and foulest and most despicable word
in the whole entire world.
       All three boys sprayed a single letter each, smiling as they did
- a smile as frightening as any crocodile, hyena, or crazed baboon.
When it came to the last letter, though, they all turned and pointed
to a new member of the gang, a girl with bright yellow hair; hair
though, that was hidden beneath the hood of her ragged black
clothes.
       “You,” shouted one of the boys, the leader maybe. His words
were like a poking ﬁnger. They were fatal, rude, and judging. “Fin-
ish it or you’re out of the gang. Finish it, or we won’t think you’re
cool.”
       There was something about the girl, though, something that
was different. Her face, for example, wasn’t mean or bullish like
the three boys, it was soft and sullen. And though she dressed like
them, wearing the same raggedy clothes and pots & pans for shoes,
it was her hair that gave her away. More so, it was the colour of
her hair that hinted at the fact that deep down, hidden under all
those raggedy clothes, she was not like them. Whereas all the no-
good kids had hair that was as fetid and ﬁlthy as their clothes, hers,
though hidden beneath her hood, was as yellow as a daisy and as
bright as the sun.
       “Be a rebel,” said the boy who was probably the leader. “Be
a rebel like us.”
       The poor sweet girl never really wanted to be in a gang, but
she was - everyone was in one way or another - so what on Earth
was she to do?
       “Be like us,” chanted the no-good kids. “Be like us. Be like
us. Be like us.”
       The girl with bright yellow hair didn’t bother with the can of
black paint. Why? She had her own – a can of paint that was as yel-
low as a daisy and as bright as the sun. And as she sprayed the letter
‘E’, the last letter in the ugliest word in the whole entire world, her

                                  27
face didn’t look mean or bullish, it didn’t look ghoulish or gro-
tesque, not like the no-good kids; no, hers was soft and sullen. And
she didn’t grafﬁti that letter either, she painted it as if the ‘E’ were
an act of compassion – a different kind of rebellion altogether.
       And the very next morning, the strangest thing occurred, the
‘E’ came to life. His name was Harrold, and Harrold had no idea,
not only that he was a letter painted on a wall, but also that he was
the last letter in the ugliest word in the world – HATE.
       “What a beautiful world,” said Harrold, looking out at the
halcyon river, the noble & majestic tree, and the quaint wooden
bench, etched with the initials of besotted lovers.
       Each seemed to have its place. They all seemed to belong.
He wondered then, what was his place and where did he belong?
And though he had only just come to life, poor sweet Harrold was
struck with but one question, one that would never let him rest.
       ‘Who am I?’
       All Harrold knew of the world and the possibility of what
could be, was from what he could see. The whole entire world was,
in fact, this quiet and wonderful street.
       “Am I a halcyon river? Am I a noble & majestic tree? Am I
a quaint wooden bench? Am I as wonderful and beautiful as thee?
Who am I?”
       That afternoon, when the sun was almost about to set, Har-
rold watched as an old lady, one whose husband had only recently
passed, stood by the halcyon river in quiet contemplation as her
thoughts and worries were swept far far away. Her face looked so
calm and peaceful in spite of all her grief.
       Harrold wondered, “Who am I? Am I a halcyon river? When
the old lady looks at me, will her face be calm and peaceful too?
Will that be proof that I am the river? I do hope so. I cannot wait
until she looks at me. I cannot wait to know who I am.”
       Next, he watched as a family made their picnic beneath the
noble & majestic tree. The mother and father sat dotingly as their
children climbed the thick branches and swung from them like
playful monkeys, their faces enveloped with joy.


                                  28
       Harrold wondered, “Who am I? Am I a tree? Am I majestic
& noble too? Do I have branches that reach out over the sky bring-
ing comfort and shade? When the family looks at me, will their
expressions be doting and joyful too? Will that be proof that I am
the tree? I do hope so. I cannot wait until they look at me. I cannot
wait to know who I am.”
       And ﬁnally, he watched as besotted lovers drank their cof-
fees and stared into each other’s eyes longingly, stopping only to
etch their initials into the quaint wooden bench - their faces em-
bossed with passion.
       Harrold wondered, “Who am I? Am I a quaint wooden
bench? Will besotted lovers carve their initials into me? Will I be
the roost for their impassioned discourse? When they look at me,
will their faces be passionate too? Will that be proof that I am the
bench? I do hope so. I cannot wait until they look at me. I cannot
wait to know who I am.”
       And poor sweet Harrold did not have to wait. As the sun
slowly set, the old lady, the family, and the besotted lovers all walked
down the street towards him. His nerves were such a ﬂutter, he
could barely contain himself.
       “Who am I?” he wondered. “I’m about to ﬁnd out.”
       His mirth, though, quickly soured as he watched the old la-
dy’s face turn from peaceful and calm to an expression that was
gangrenous and coarse, one that was shaped like a rude gesture.
The family too, and the besotted lovers as well, their expressions
were neither doting, joyful, nor impassioned. Theirs had turned,
just as the old lady’s had, into ones of abhorrence, contempt, and
offence. They all snarled, hissed, and jeered, and they stuck their
tongues out at poor sweet Harrold before walking off in apparent
disgust.
       Ashamed and full of woe, Harrold lamented: “Who am I if
I cause these wonderful people so much disgust? Am I disgusting?
Am I abhorrent? Am I contemptuous? Am I offensive? Am I vile,
revolting, and profane? If this is true, if this is the very essence of
my being, if – in this world - this is who I am, then I do not want
to live in this world, no I do not. I do not want to be me.”

                                  29
        That night, as Harrold sulked, the gang of no-good kids
came back, clanging their pots & pans and making their ungodly
racket. Just like the night before, they hissed at the noble & majestic
tree, stuck out their tongues at the quaint wooden bench, and then
each took turns spitting into the halcyon river.
        “What a bunch of no-good kids,” thought Harrold, “treating
all those wonderful and beautiful things that way. I do not like them
one bit, no I do not.”
        The no-good kids made their way down the street towards
Harrold and when they did, their faces lit up like Christmas trees.
They were all smiling from ear to ear and high ﬁving each other as
if this were the most impassioned, joyous, and peaceful day in their
lives.
        Harrold lamented, “Who am I if such monsters take delight
in me? I do not want to live in this world, no I do not. I do not
want to be me.”
        And it was then that Harrold saw the young girl – the girl
with bright yellow hair. And it was then that she saw him. They
stared at one another as if they were both looking into a mirror. If
Harrold were to have an expression, his would surely be as soft and
sullen as hers. Neither Harrold nor the girl with bright yellow hair
looked as if they belonged where they were.
        That night, when everything was quiet again, Harrold was
startled by the sound of someone sneaking up beside him. Though
he couldn’t see, it was the girl with bright yellow hair. She had re-
turned with a can of white paint and wasted no time busying her-
self, spraying on the wall beside him. And every time she rattled
and sprayed her can, the shame and woe that had been bothering
poor sweet Harrold so much, subsided, if ever just a bit.
        The very next day, when the sun was shining high in the sky,
the besotted lovers returned and sat on the quaint wooden bench,
while the family made their picnic beneath the noble & majestic
tree, and the old lady stood in quiet contemplation, her thoughts
and worries swept far far away by the halcyon river.
        As sad as he was, Harrold still couldn’t help but see the
world as beautiful, even if he were not. To him, their impassioned,

                                  30
doting, joyful, and peaceful faces looked like ﬂowers in a garden,
basking in the morning sun. And at the end of the day, they all
made their way down the street, down towards Harrold.
       “Please, go away,” said Harrold, wishing he could hide like
a snail or a turtle. “Don’t come near me. I’m disgusting. I’m ugly.
Don’t look at me. Leave me alone.”
       This time, though, their faces were not reviled, revulsed or
repugnant – not as they had been before. And they didn’t hiss or
jeer either. No. In fact, much to Harrold’s surprise, their expres-
sions were as warm and kind as the sun that slowly set behind
them.
       Someone had painted over the letters that were beside him –
the ‘H’, the ‘A’, and the ‘T’ - and they had replaced them with an ‘L’,
an ‘O’, and a ‘V’. And though Harrold didn’t know it, he could see
it on the people’s faces. He wasn’t just an ‘E’, he was the last letter
in the biggest word in the world – LOVE.
       As they stared in quiet awe, the besotted lovers embraced
and kissed, the mother and father picked up their children and held
them close to their breasts, while the old lady, who for as long as
she could remember had been grieving the passing of her husband
and dearest friend, ﬁnally managed to weep a single nostalgic tear.
       “So beautiful,” they all said.
       Sitting alone on the branch of a tree, the girl with bright yel-
low hair smiled and agreed. “So beautiful,” she said, “so beautiful
indeed.”
       Harrold was overcome with shivers of joy. Had he eyes, he
would have cried. Had he arms, he would have reached out and
hugged every one of them. Had he lips he would have kissed them
all. Had he a voice, he would have shouted: “I love you”.
       Instead, he quietly pondered, “What a wonderful world. I
never want to leave. I’m ever so happy, so happy to be me.”




                                  31
     harrold is in me




32
33
Once upon a time, in a part of the world that was blessed with the
most splendiferous ﬂowers, there lived two tribes, one on either
side of a great mountain. On the left side of the mountain there
lived The Blue Tribe, named as such because of the bright blue
ﬂowers that grew wild in their ﬁelds; while on the right side there
lived The Red Tribe, whose red ﬂowers blossomed for as far as the
eye could see.
        Both tribes had once been nomads, drudging along from
plain to plain on the scarce and faint footprints of their next meal
and the hope of a moment’s respite; their bodies aching constantly,
almost as much as their empty bellies; and from centuries of walk-
ing, the soles of their feet had worn as thin as their hopes and aspi-
rations. It had not been an easy life, not for either tribe.
        One day, though, either by fate or by chance, both tribes
stumbled upon a vast ﬁeld of the most splendiferous ﬂowers that
grew wild and free on either side of a great mountain. And much
to their surprise, grazing in the middle of each ﬁeld was a herd
of sheep and cattle, animals with which they did not have to give
chase. And it was there, on that very day, that both tribes aban-
doned a lifetime of aimless wandering and declared a new agrarian
age.
        “From this day forth,” said the leaders of both tribes. “We
shall live amongst these splendiferous ﬂowers. We shall raise these
animals as our own. This land shall be our home.”
        No longer having to hunt for their food, both tribes had now
the time to learn other skills such as farming, architecture, and toy
making. It was a time of learning. It was a time of change. And all
of it because of a single-coloured ﬂower.
        “Praised be the blue ﬂower,” sang one tribe.
        “Praised be the red ﬂower,” sang the other.
        Both tribes took pride in their ﬂowers, fashioning garments
and headdresses, and decorating their entire villages; and on occa-
sions, both festive and not, they drank tea, brewed from the co-
loured petals as they danced, sang songs, and played games - all in
the name of their own splendiferous ﬂower.
        More than a sense of pride, though, their ﬂowers were a

                                 34
symbol of meaning, purpose, and hope. And at dawn and dusk
every day, they worshipped their splendiferous ﬂowers, on bended
knee, giving thanks for the peace, love, and joy - and more so, the
life of plenty – which, as a gift from the gods, had been bestowed
upon them.
       “Praised be the blue ﬂower,” sang one tribe.
       “Praised be the red ﬂower,” sang the other.
       And in no time, babies were being born and shopping malls
were being built, and each side of the mountain now looked less
like a village, and more like a city. So advanced were they that not
one person could even remember a time when their lives were less
splendiferous for the simple fact that neither could imagine a world
without abundance and plenty.
       Anything in the world they could imagine, they could have.
Soon enough, the most enormous houses were being built; some
ten or twenty times bigger than they need be. And every inch of
their houses was ﬁlled with things; every manner of thing one
could imagine – things on the walls, things on the ﬂoor, things in
the corner, things by the door. Some of the things were objects like
televisions and books, and some of the things were the ideas that
were ﬁlled inside them. All of them could be bought and sold, and
of them, neither one ever had enough.
       “Praised be the blue ﬂower,” sang one tribe.
       “Praised be the red ﬂower,” sang the other.
       It really was a wonderful time; a time, though, that would be
short-lived, for it soon became clear, for both tribes, that they were
not alone – that danger was close; and it lurked, like a venomous
snake coiled in the brush, on the other side of that mountain.
       Each tribe suddenly became aware of the other.
       “Who are they?” cried the villagers to their leaders.
       “Marauders, they are,” shouted the leaders to their tribes.
“Macabre, monstrous, and maleﬁcent.”
       “What do they want?”
       “To cause us great harm, it seems. They want to take from
us what is ours, and at any cost. They will come with weapons
- horrible, horrendous, heinous weapons. And they’ll come when

                                 35
when we least suspect. They’ll come in the dead of night. They’ll
come when our eyes are closed. They will steal our sheep, our cows,
and our crops. Worse still, they will steal all of our things. They will
take everything we own.”
       “What did we ever do to them?” cried the villagers. “Why
would they be so cruel?”
       “They are disgusted by our blue ﬂowers,” said one leader.
       “They are repulsed by our red ﬂowers,” said the other.
       “They hate you because you are blue,” said one leader.
       “They hate you because you are red,” said the other.
       “They are vermin,” said both leaders at once. “The very
worst kind - violent, virulent, and vile.”
       Both tribes were stricken with fear. Neither one could imag-
ine their possessions being taken from them They loved their things;
they worshipped them, even. Their things gave them meaning, pur-
pose, and hope. The thought of losing them, then, was akin to los-
ing their very souls. Neither too, could either tribe imagine anyone
hating the colour of their splendiferous ﬂowers, and as such, both
were disgusted by the thought of the other.
       “Only cockroaches like red ﬂowers,” said the people in The
Blue Tribe.
       “Only rats like ﬂowers that are blue,” said the people in the
other.
       Soon enough, nobody was talking about how splendiferous
their own ﬂowers were but instead, how gross and grotesque the
others must certainly be. No longer did they dance, sing songs, or
play games in the name of their splendiferous ﬂower; no longer did
they even praise their ﬂower at all.
       “Cursed be the red ﬂower,” sang The Blue Tribe.
       “Cursed be the blue ﬂower,” sang the other.
       “Only cockroaches like red ﬂowers,” said The Blue Tribe.
       “Only rats like ﬂowers that are blue,” said the other.
       It was as if both tribes had forgotten what the colours of
their own ﬂowers were, for it had been so long since anyone had
spoken of them. The Blue Tribe only ever spoke about the red
ﬂower while The Red Tribe was consumed and obsessed by the

                                  36
other, preferring to spend each second of every day thinking only
about that which insulted, disgusted, and revolted them – that
which had them incensed, enraged, and irate.
       No longer did they feel a sense of peace or love; no longer
did they embellish a single drop of joy at all. No, they only felt fear
and anger. Fear at the thought of their things being taken, and an-
ger at the hands of those who would take them.
       Every day it was the same – fear, anger, fear, anger; it had to
stop.
       “We have to do something. We cannot sleep at night.”
       Both tribes would do anything to protect their things – any-
thing at all.
       “Whatever will we do?”
       “I have a plan,” said the two leaders, calming their tribes.
“And yes, it is true.”
       “The cockroaches will invade through our drainpipes,” said
one leader.
       “The rats will infest through our sewers,” said the other.
       “So, there is only one thing to do,” said both leaders at once.
“But to invade their city before they invade ours. And as punish-
ment for plotting to take our things, we shall take all of theirs ﬁrst.”
       Both tribes erupted in cheer.
       “Cursed be the red ﬂower,” chanted the Blue Tribe.
       “Cursed be the blue ﬂower,” chanted the other.
       The two leaders addressed their people.
       “We will send our ﬁnest warrior,” they said.
       “And he will squash the cockroaches,” said one leader.
       “And she will exterminate the rats,” said the other.
       “And poison their ﬂowers forever.”
       The very next day, from one side of the mountain, a young
man armed with a weapon, some poison, and a big empty sack so
as to take all of their enemy’s things, waited to begin his ascent.
       “Be vigilant,” said the blue leader. “Your enemy is a cock-
roach. They are ﬁlthy and full of disease and they scurry quickly.”
       “Yes, sir,” said the young man.
       “They have wings too. They will ﬂy at your face and into

                                  37
your mouth when you are least suspecting.”
       The thought of a cockroach touching his lips perturbed
him, but in spite of it all, he stayed brave.
       “I shall never let a cockroach near my mouth,” he said.
       “And you will know it by its red ﬂower.”
       “Yes, sir.”
       “Now, be gone. Take risk and take care.”
       The red leader too gave her words of warning.
       “Be watchful,” she said to her warrior who too stood at the
foot of the mountain, armed with a weapon, some poison, and
a big empty sack so as to take all of their enemy’s things. “Your
enemy is a rat. They are ﬁlthy and full of disease and they scurry
quickly.”
       “Yes, mam,” said the young woman.
       “They have axe-like teeth too. They will climb on you when
you sleep and gnaw at your tongue.”
       The thought of a rat touching her lips perturbed her, but in
spite of it all, she stayed brave.
       “I shall never let a rat near my mouth,” she said.
       “And you will know it by its blue ﬂower.”
       “Yes, mam.”
       “Now be gone. Take risk and take care.”
       And she, like the young man on the other side of the moun-
tain, made her ascent.
       Both warriors were incredibly brave, but both too were full
of fear and trepidation. Who wouldn’t? At any moment, in any of
the crevices with which they placed their hands, a cockroach or
a rat might scurry out and bite the tips of their ﬁngers. The fear
alone was enough to have both of them almost slip and fall over a
dozen times.
       Resilient, though, for they were brave like none other, they
climbed onwards.
       Eventually, after weeks, maybe even months of climbing,
the two warriors reached the peak of the mountain and there they
rested - on either side - neath a vast expanse of splendiferous green
ﬂowers.

                                 38
       Overcome by the beauty, both warriors laid down their
weapons, basking in the peace that, in the air, permeated; the love
that, from the green ﬂowers, radiated; and the joy that, as a result,
tingled inside them.
       “I could live here forever,” said the young man.
       “I need never go home,” said the young woman.
       And they needn’t. The mountain peak was ripe with all that
they needed to live a fruitful and bountiful life. Best yet, neither
one had caught sight of a single cockroach or rat. It was almost
unfathomable to believe that a ﬁlthy and disease-riddled creature
could be found in such a peaceful, loving, and joyous place as this.
       It was while picking a piece of fruit that the young man was
startled by a rustling that came from some brush not far from where
he stood. He pricked his ears and sharpened his eyes and peered
out through the vast expanse of splendiferous green ﬂowers, nary
blinking and nary taking a single breath, so as not to stiﬂe his view.
       Slowly he crawled, through the peaceful, loving, and joyous
ﬁeld of splendiferous green ﬂowers, nervously clutching the weap-
on in his hand – his sight ﬁxed on a single ﬂower that stuck out
from all the rest, moving slowly towards him.
       The young woman too, her eyes just as sharp, her ears pricked
just as attentive, and her weapon clutched just as nervously in her
hand – her sight, too, ﬁxed upon a single ﬂower that stuck out from
all the rest, moving slowly towards her.
       “Got you!” shouted the two warriors as they burst from the
ﬂowers, their faces drawn with big crazy eyes and snarling teeth.
       She ﬂew into him and he into her, and both warriors fell to
the ground.
       “I’m so sorry,” they said when they realised it was a person
they had hit, not a cockroach or rat, but instead, a person just like
them.
       “I didn’t mean it.”
       “It was an accident.”
       “It was all my fault.”
       Both were burdened with regret and remorse.
       “It’s ﬁne,” they both replied.

                                 39
       “I am not hurt.”
       “I am not bothered.”
       “I hold no bearing grudge.”
       Surrounded by the splendiferous green ﬂowers the young
man and young woman stared into each other’s eyes and for a brief
moment, they forgot entirely what it was that they had climbed the
mountain for in the ﬁrst place – for both their eyes were as emerald
as the ﬂowers in which they basked.
       “My name is Red,” said the young woman.
       “My name is Blue,” said the young man.
       “It is ever so ever, so nice to meet you,” they both said, one
enraptured by the other, and the other enraptured right back.
       “These ﬂowers are beautiful,” said the young man. “They
bring me peace and joy, and I love them.”
       The young woman said the same. Though, in truth, neither
had been talking about the ﬂowers.
       “These ﬂowers are handsome,” she said. “They bring me
peace and joy, and I love them.”
       And for no sane reason whatsoever, they kissed.
       It wasn’t until the young man ran his ﬁngers through the
young woman’s hair and she ran hers through his, that both of them
panicked. A red ﬂower in her hair and a blue ﬂower in his. Their
stomachs sank, their hearts beat rampant, their amygdalae grew to
the size of elephants, and as such, adrenaline coursed through their
veins.
       “Stand back!” they both screamed.
       Both warriors clutched their weapons.
       “Be careful,” shouted he to her.
       “Watch yourself,” shouted she to him.
       “There is a cockroach nearby,” shouted the young man.
       “There is a rat in the ﬁeld,” shouted the young woman in
return.
       Neither, though, assumed the other was the vermin.
       “It was on you,” said the young man, pulling the red ﬂower
from behind the young woman’s ear.
       “It was on you too,” said she, pulling a blue ﬂower from

                                 40
behind his too.
       “It must be here,” they both screamed.
       The cockroach for him, and the rat for her.
       So worried was one for the other they each shouted.
       “Stay well back, my love, for I will protect you.”
       Neither one saw the other scouring through the ﬁeld. Nei-
ther one noticed the weapons in each other’s hands, cutting away
at the ﬂowers, pulling them out by their roots – he, hunting a ﬁlthy
and disease-riddled cockroach, and she, a ﬁlthy and disease-riddled
rat.
       Hack and slice they did, tearing up the soil, and chopping
each and every splendiferous green ﬂower to bits, completely sure
as they were, that behind and beneath every next ﬂower, they would
ﬁnd that ﬁlthy and disease-riddled vermin - that vermin so violent
and virulent and vile.
       They hacked and sliced and chopped their way through the
whole ﬁeld – from one side of the mountain’s peak to the other
– until all that was left was a single green ﬂower: a splendiferous
ﬂower, yes, but a ﬂower nonetheless whose peace, love, and joy,
was shadowed by forlorn sadness, for it was a ﬂower that was all
on its own.
       “What have we done?” said she to him, and he to her.
       “We have torn up all these ﬂowers.”
       “Our fear fed our anger.”
       “And our anger made us blind.”
       “There never was a cockroach,” said the young man.
       “There never was a rat,” said the young woman in return.
       “Then what of the ﬂower in your ear?”
       Said one to the other and the other in return.
       “The blue ﬂower is mine,” said the young man. “I am of The
Blue Tribe.”
       “And the red ﬂower is mine,” said the young woman. “I am
of The Red Tribe.”
       “That’s impossible,” they both said.
       Neither could believe what they were hearing. Only cock-
roaches wore red ﬂowers and only rats wore blue. Bewildered –

                                41
befuddled, even – the two warriors examined each other looking
for wings and axe-like teeth. Both were disgusted, too, for they had
kissed one another. Were she a cockroach, she might have crawled
in his mouth. Were he a rat, he might have gnawed off her tongue.
Yet, she looked nothing like a cockroach, and he looked nothing
like a rat.
        “Do you live under rocks?” asked the young man.
        “Do I look like I can?”
        “No,” he replied.
        “Can you squeeze through a shower drain?” asked the young
woman.
        “Do I look like I can?”
        “No,” she replied.
        “You do not have wings,” said he to her.
        “Of course, I do not,” was her reply. “And you do not have
teeth that can gnaw through rope.”
        Both warriors had spent their whole lives learning that, not
only was their ﬂower the only sacred and morally true ﬂower but
that only an insect or a rodent would ever worship a ﬂower of a dif-
ferent kind. They had spent their entire lives fearful and disgusted
at the thought of one another, thinking only that she was a cock-
roach, and that he was a rat; not that they were real people, not that
they too were capable of compassion and consideration.
        “This can’t be true,” they both said. “If it were, it would
mean that everything I had been told since I was a child was wrong.
Everything that I ever learned was a lie.”
        “You’re not a cockroach,” said he to her.
        “And you’re not a rat,” said she to him.
        “You are not vermin at all,” they both said. “You are not
violent, virulent, or vile.”
        “You are beautiful,” said he.
        “You are handsome,” said she.
        “You’re a person, just like me,” they both said. “And your
presence makes me feel peace, your embrace makes me feel love,
and your smile warms my heart with joy.”
        The two warriors sat holding hands, by the last splendiferous

                                 42
green ﬂower.
       “I will not attack your tribe,” said he to her.
       “And neither I to yours,” she said in reply.
       “What if we stayed here?” asked the young man. “What if
we made this our home?”
       “Yes!” said the young woman emphatic. “And we will start a
new village, but one built upon peace, love, and joy; one that never
loses its way; one that doesn’t worship things – be they objects or
ideas; and one that is not driven by fear, shame, and disgust – one
that is never ruled by blind and tribalist anger.”
       “From this day forth, we shall make our home here, then,”
said the young man. “By this splendiferous green ﬂower.”
       The two warriors hugged and promised each other that,
from this moment on, they would never let anything happen to the
peace, love, and joy that had brought them together. They prom-
ised to protect the splendiferous green ﬂower from threat so that
one day they might have many.
       And they would do anything to protect it – anything at all.
       “Praised be the green ﬂower,” they chanted. “Praised be the
green ﬂower.”




                                43
44
Once upon a time, there was a family of bears that lived in a nice
house by a big redwood tree. There were three bears in all: Mama
Bear, Papa Bear, and Baby Bear.
       Mama Bear was the boss of the family; she always knew the
right thing to say and when to say it, and what she said stuck. Then
there was Papa Bear; he could roar ravenous and rapacious if he
wanted to; most of the time, though, he just roared with laughter.
And ﬁnally, there was Baby Bear; he was the luckiest bear in the
world.
       Lucky to be alive if you ask me.
       You see, Mama Bear had been born with bad ovaries. Barren
as the doctors had said. And from a young age, she knew that she
would never have cubs. Imagine everyone’s surprise, then, when
Baby Bear was born – the luckiest bear in the world.
       “I’m the luckiest bear in the world,” shouted Baby Bear, div-
ing into the river.
       “You sure are, buddy,” said Papa Bear, diving in after him.
“The luckiest bear in the world.”
       Life was amazing. It was so full of wonder, jubilation, and
glee. Every day was better than the one before, and the only thing
that ever came close was knowing that tomorrow would be even
better.
       “I can’t wait for tomorrow,” said Baby Bear.
       “I bet you can’t,” said Mama Bear, watching her boy splash-
ing in the water.
       “I’m gonna climb a tree.”
       “A whole tree?”
       “Yep, that’s right, mum. A whole tree. Just like dad. The big
redwood tree. I’m gonna climb it all the way to the top and I’m not
gonna be scared too.”
       “I’m sure you will. Now, how about we just ﬁnish today ﬁrst.
After all, those salmon won’t catch themselves, now, will they?”
       Mama Bear was right; she was always right. She knew just
what to say and when to say it. She was easily the smartest bear in
the world. There was nothing she didn’t know.
       “You’re right, mum,” said Baby Bear, smiling.

                                45
Then he shoved his ﬂuffy brown paws into the river and pulled out
the biggest salmon he’d ever seen in his life; it was almost as big
as him. So big was it, that every time it ﬂapped its tail, Baby Bear
went ﬂying backwards, laughing as he did, almost dropping the ﬁsh
altogether. It was so big that it took all his strength just to keep its
head out of the water. It was so big he couldn’t believe it himself.
        “Look at me, mummy,” he shouted. “I got a big ﬁsh!”
        “I can see,” shouted Mama Bear back, ever so proud.
        Then Baby Bear bit off the salmon’s head.
        “Eat up, son,” said Mama Bear. “A young cub needs lots of
energy.”
        They really were the luckiest family in the world, and they
knew it too.
        “We’re so lucky to have him,” said Papa Bear, rubbing his big
paw on Mama Bear’s big brown belly.
        “We sure are,” said she, putting her big paw on his.
        “Who do you think he’ll be like when he’s older?” asked Papa
Bear.
        “Just let him be young,” said Mama Bear. “He’ll be older
soon enough. And when he is, you’ll be ﬁghting to remember who
he was when he was young. Just enjoy this.”
        She always knew the right thing to say and the right time to
say it.
        “Besides,” she said. “There’s no doubt he’ll have his father’s
ravenous and rapacious roar.”
        Papa Bear blushed.
        “And his mother’s sensible and scholarly wit,” he said in re-
turn.
        “Love you, you big oaf,” said Mama Bear.
        “Love you too,” said Papa Bear right back.
        Both watched their son chewing on ﬁsh heads.
        “It’s funny,” said Papa Bear. “I can remember not having
Baby Bear, but for the life of me, I can’t remember what it felt like
not having him in my life. Does that make sense?”
        “It does,” said Mama Bear.
        “That boy is my compass – my north.”

                                  46
       “He is my heart and lungs,” said Mama Bear.
       Both their paws were pressed on Mama Bear’s belly.
       “We’re the luckiest bears in the world,” said Papa Bear.
       They could have stood there forever watching their boy eat-
ing; nothing at all brought them nearly as much peace.
       “I could stay here forever,” said Mama Bear.
       “So too, could I,” said Papa Bear in reply.
       “But we must head home. It will be dark soon and we don’t
want our boy to catch his death a cold.”
       “That’s why you’re the Mama Bear,” said Papa Bear, follow-
ing her lead.
       That night the three bears slept wonderfully; Papa Bear in his
big bed, all taut and ﬁrm just as he liked; Mama Bear in her bed,
as soft as a bag full of clouds; and Baby Bear, in his tiny little bed
that was not too soft and not too hard – it was, for him, just right.
       In the morning, Mama Bear started to make the porridge
while Papa Bear sharpened his claws on a big old stone in the back-
yard.
       “Time to wake up,” shouted Mama Bear.
       But Baby Bear didn’t rouse.
       “We don’t want to be late,” she said.
       But again, not a sound.
       “That’s strange,” she said. “Baby Bear is almost always up
before the porridge is served. I wonder if he’s feeling a little off. I’ll
just go and check.”
        A little off he was not, for poor little Baby Bear was as good
as dead.
       “I’m afraid he’s in a coma,” said Doctor Bear, later in the day.
“We must get him to hospital and intubate him immediately.”
       Mama Bear gasped.
       Papa Bear roared – a roar that was ravenous and rapacious.
       “I will not lie,” said Doctor Bear. “This does not look good.”
       Weeks they spent, looking at their son through the thick pro-
tectant glass as nurses changed his diaper’s and his drip, and doc-
tors mulled over what could be wrong.
       “We’re stumped,” said some.

                                   47
       “We’ve no idea,” said others.
       “It is a kind of bacteria that none of us has seen. It’s not
of any bear whatsoever. It’s ravaging his organs. And I’m not sure
what we can do. Has he eaten anything odd?” asked Doctor Bear.
       “Nothing out of the ordinary,” said Papa Bear. “A dozen
salmon. Some foxes. A rabbit. Nothing fancy. Nothing strange.
Nothing out of the normal at all. Do you think it’s his diet? Do you
think it was his food?”
       Papa Bear felt saddled with guilt.
       “It could be anything at this point,” said Doctor Bear. “Do
you know if he might have come into contact with any wild crea-
tures?”
       “Like what?” asked Papa Bear.
       “A human, for example. I know it’s a long shot.”
       “Impossible,” said Papa Bear.
       “Humans carry a great deal of disease,” said Doctor Bear.
“Aids and syphilis and hepatitis and gonorrhoea and cholera and
leprosy and inﬂuenza and….”
       He went on and on and on.
       “We know that humans carry diseases,” said Papa Bear.
“They’re disgusting and ﬁlthy. We know that. But we bears keep a
clean house.”
       “If it’s not a human then I’m not sure what it could be.”
       “It’s not,” said Papa Bear, wanting to believe as much.
       Day by day, Baby Bear’s health grew worse and worse.
       “Can we just see him?” pleaded Papa Bear. “Just for a mo-
ment. Just to hold his paw. Please. He’s my son. If I lose him, I can’t
go on. We can’t go on. He needs us. He needs his Mama and Papa.
Have a heart. Have a conscience. Have a soul.”
       “I’m sorry,” said every doctor, each time that he asked. “The
risk of infection is far too severe.”
       Months soon passed and turned into a year and then one
day, just when all hope had been given up, in what seemed like a
miracle, Baby Bear opened his eyes.
       “He’s alive,” shouted Papa Bear. “Mama Bear, our cub is
awake – he’s alive!”

                                  48
         Mama Bear screamed aloud. She’d been holding her breath
the entire year. It was a rapturous roar – full of worry, guilt, and
allaying joy.
         “I love you, Baby Bear,” she shouted.
         She always knew the right thing to say and when to say it.
         Doctor Bear, though, was much less pleased.
         “I’m afraid, his condition is much worse than expected.”
         “But his eyes are open,” said Mama Bear. “He’s woken from
the coma. He is ﬁne now. Isn’t he?”
         She wished that he were, but she knew, by the look in Doctor
Bear’s eyes, that he wasn’t.
         “His organs have failed and I’m sorry to say,” said Doctor
Bear. “This lucky little bear will not live out the day. You’d do best
to say your goodbyes.”
         Baby Bear looked so spritely, despite his condition.
         “Is the porridge ready?” he asked.
         Mama Bear broke down in tears.
         “What’s wrong with mummy?” asked Baby Bear.
         He spluttered through every word, his voice feeble and faint.
         “She’s ﬁne,” said Papa Bear. “She’s just worried about you,
is all.”
         Neither one knew what to say.
         “Is it tomorrow yet?” asked Baby Bear. “Is it time to climb
the tree?”
         “It is, son,” said Papa Bear, struggling to hold back his tears.
         “I’m the luckiest bear in the world,” said Baby Bear.
         “You sure are,” said Papa Bear. “There’s no bear as lucky as
you.”
         And then Baby Bear went into cardiac arrest and died.
         There was no word to describe how Mama and Papa Bear
felt inside. It was every feeling. It was all of them – and all at once.
Distraught, Mama and Papa Bear walked home with Baby Bear in
their arms.
         “We’ll bury him by the big redwood tree,” said Papa Bear, the
only one of them who could speak.
         Mama Bear had no words, only feelings – the very worst kind

                                   49
of feelings. And as she walked through the woods, her paws pressed
on her belly, the animals in the forest – the foxes and rabbits and
hedgehogs, and the mama and baby deer too – they all stood along
the path weeping and wailing and crying out loud, for her loss was
their loss too; the luckiest bear in the world.
       “I’ll dig the graves when we return,” said Papa Bear.
       And he did just that. While Mama Bear stared idle and vacu-
ous at the salmon that swam up the stream, Papa Bear dug three
neat graves.
       “We were the luckiest bears in the world,” he said, laying
Baby Bear softly on the ground, humming his favourite nursery
rhyme as he did.
       Mama Bear said nothing. She merely gave herself to Papa
Bear as he laid her down, just as gently, into her grave. There,
Mama Bear pressed one of her paws on her own belly, from where
her child had been born, and the other she placed on her son – her
heart and lungs, her peace and love, her meaning of life, her lucki-
est bear in the world.
       “I love you, my boy,” she said. “I’ll see you soon.”
       She looked at Papa Bear for a moment and blew him a kiss,
then closed her eyes and listened to the last few beats of her heart.
       “You are the luckiest Mama in the world,” said Papa Bear, a
second before he shot her in the face.
       They were both at peace now – Mama and Baby Bear. Papa
Bear said nothing. He merely climbed into his own grave, on the
other side of his boy, and there he lay, with one paw on his son and
the other on the trigger of the shotgun that was wedged between
his teeth.
       “I love you, Mama Bear,” he said. “I love you, Baby Bear.”
       Just as he was about to pull the trigger, Papa Bear heard what
sounded like a shriek coming from inside the house. It was the
strangest sound, unlike any bear – unlike any animal at all that went
about these woods.
       Papa Bear climbed out of his grave and ran towards the
house, shotgun in paw. He could see something moving inside, but
he could not tell what.

                                 50
         “Who goes there?” he shouted, his roar, ravenous and rapa-
cious.
       But there was no reply.
       Papa Bear kicked the door in. There in the house, he saw
the dining room amess; cutlery strewn about the place, plates and
bowls tossed on the ﬂoor. And there was porridge – everywhere.
        Papa Bear cocked the gun, pulled its stock to his shoulder,
and stared down the barrel with grievous and murderous eyes. As
he walked slowly through the house, he could hear the most per-
turbing sound, a horriﬁc kind of squeal, like that of a weasel or a
boar having its head pulled away from its body.
       “Who goes there?” he roared again, kicking open ﬁrst his
room, then Mama Bear’s, then ﬁnally, at the end of the hall, that
of his son.
       “What foul fetid ﬁend are you?” he shouted.
       In Baby Bear’s bed was a tiny human. A female one. Goldi-
locks was its name. No older than a cub itself. It had long curly
blonde hair and a pasty white face that was painted with shock and
surprise.
       “Get out of my son’s bed,” roared Papa Bear.
       The ﬁlthy human was wrapped up in his blankets, getting its
ﬁlthy skin and ﬁlthy hair – and all the disease that came with it – all
over Baby Bear’s things.
       In that instant, Papa Bear suddenly realised how it was that
Baby Bear had come to be so sick and incurable. That disgusting
creature - that disgusting, feculent, and germ-ridden human - had
gotten their boy sick.
       “You put disease in his porridge,” said Papa Bear, shooting
off one of Goldilocks’ knees. “You put disease in his bed,” he said,
shooting off the other.
       There was a great deal of blood, especially for such a small
human.
       “You came into our home uninvited,” said Papa Bear, laying
the gun on the ﬂoor, for there was only one bullet left. “You took
from us – our food, our comfort, our joy. You took the light from
the sun. You took the sun from the sky. You took the life from our

                                  51
veins. You took our son – our only son. The luckiest bear in the
world.”
       He stood over Goldilocks as the human wept and bled un-
controllably.
       “But you couldn’t take our love,” said Papa Bear. “Our love
is too strong.”
       And so, he bit out Goldilocks’ neck, just as Baby Bear had
bitten off the salmon’s head. He gnashed, he gnawed, and ripped
the human’s neck to shreds, spitting it back in its face, for humans
tasted foul. Then he clawed the human once more – from its belly
right to its neck – leaving it to thrash about and bleed to death,
before picking up his shotgun and going back outside to lay down
in the grave he had dug; he on one side of Baby Bear and Mama
Bear on the other.
       The luckiest bears in the world.
       And then he pulled the trigger.




                                52
53
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who lived in a big old house
by the forest with her mother. Red was her name, because of the
red cloak that she wore whenever she played detective, which was
almost all of the time. She might have had another name – a proper
name – but everyone in town called her Red.
       Red didn’t have any brothers or sisters, nor did she have any
friends or family at all. It was just her and Mother in the big old
house all alone; they didn’t even have any pets.
       “Animals are dangerous,” Mother would say. “They are dia-
bolical, double-dealing devils. Can’t be trusted. Not a single one of
them. Cats will suffocate you in your sleep. Dogs will bite off your
toes.”
       Red was petriﬁed whenever she heard the story.
       “Happened to a friend of mine, it did. Lost all of her toes
one Christmas Eve, and was suffocated to death the very next day.”
       It was lucky, then, that they did not have a cat or a dog.
       “Don’t even get me started on wolves.”
       There was nothing scarier in the world than the thought of a
hungry wolf – those big pointy ears, those big ferocious eyes, and
that big mouth, full of razor-sharp teeth. Wolves were the worst.
All they knew how to do was lie and sneak about so that they could
eat children. And they were good at it too. They were the evilest
and most conniving creatures on the planet; not even snakes or
sharks came close.
       And the forest was full of them.
       “If I ever saw a wolf, I’d punch it in the face,” said Red.
       “I imagine if a wolf ever saw you,” said Mother, sternly. “It’d
gobble you up.”
       Mother didn’t much care for Red’s daydreaming and playing
around, nor did she care for this kind of talk either. Wolves were
animals after all, and animals were dangerous – they were diaboli-
cal, double-dealing devils.
       “And what would you really do if you ever saw a wolf ?”
asked Mother.
       “Shout as loud as I can so that The Woodsman comes to my
rescue,” said Red.

                                 54
       “That’s right. Good girl. Leave the hero’s work to the hero.”
       Red had never seen The Woodsman; she had only ever heard
of him. He lived in the forest too. He was supposed to be the
strongest and bravest man in the world – nothing scared him at
all – and he never went anywhere without his sharp and shiny axe.
       Red, though, had never even been in the woods. She had
lived near it for years, but not once had she ever ventured inside.
She had never really had a reason to go in there, but even if she
did, she’d probably be too scared anyway. It was one thing to talk
about punching a wolf in the face but imagine actually meeting
one? Yikes!
       She never had to worry about that, though, as she never had
to leave the house. There was no time and there were always way
too many things to do. Every day Red had a ton of activities and
chores – lesson after lesson, and never-ending cleaning.
       And while she was busy doing all that, Mother would visit
Grandma at her little cottage in the middle of the forest, bringing
her favourite cakes and biscuits.
       When there was any free time, Red would do her favourite
thing in the world – dress up in her red cloak and play detective
around her big old house. She loved solving puzzles, whodunnits
and mysteries.
       Rarely, though, was there any free time. Mother had her
studying so many things. And at any given time of the day, Red
would be learning one of a dozen different languages.
       “You’ll need it for your future, dear Red. You never know
where you’ll end up.”
       One day, while Red was playing detective - hot on The Case
of the Missing Cookie - she heard a loud thump and then the most
painful cry; Mother had slipped on the wet kitchen ﬂoor and twist-
ed her ankle.
       “Oh, my dear, Red, I have, it seems, come undone.”
       Mother’s ankle was all swollen and sore.
       “Are you ok, Mother? Do you want me to call the doctor?”
       “No, my dear, Red, I care not to waste his time.”
       She looked pained and in distress.

                                55
       “I’ll look after you, Mother,” said Red. “I can cook if you
like. And I already know how to clean very well. You can rest in
bed, and I’ll take care of you.”
       “Yes,” said Mother. “That would be good. But it’s not I that
needs you as much as your poor Grandma. She is alone in her cot-
tage in the middle of the forest.”
       “Oh no!” said Red.
       Her worry was palpable.
       “Will she be ok? Should we call her?”
       “There is no phone line, my dear, Red. And even if there
was, your poor Grandma might not hear it ring for her hearing is
not well.”
       “Oh no!” said Red again.
       “Yes,” said Mother. “And without help, she will not be able
to ﬁnd the kitchen to make her food for her sight is not well.”
       “Whatever shall we do?” asked Red.
       “We’ve no choice but to send you,” said Mother. “If you
think you are up to the task.”
       “Me?” asked Red, surprised and a little scared.
       “Don’t you love your Grandma?”
       “Of course, I do,” said Red, though she had never met her
before.
       “Don’t you love your Mother?”
       “Of course, I do!”
       There was no denying that.
       “Well, it’s settled then. There is a basket on the dining table
already prepared with Grandma’s things. All you have to do is take
it to her. Can you do that?”
       Red looked unsettled and unsure. Could she do it? She had
no idea. She hoped she could. At the very least, though, she didn’t
want to let Mother down. And she was just as nervous about saying
yes as she was at the thought of saying no.
       “I guess so,” she said. “Yeah. No. Of course, I can. Yes.”
       “Good,” said Mother. “There isn’t much time. You should
get going now so you’re back before it’s dark.”
       Red went to the kitchen and fetched the picnic basket.

                                 56
        “Remember,” said Mother. “Stay on the path. Do not stray –
not once, not at all, not ever; for any reason whatsoever.”
        “Yes, Mother,” said Red, her words seasoned with a dash of
excitement and worry.
        “And watch out for wolves!” she said.
        Those words echoed in Red’s thoughts – from the second
she left the front door until she was well inside the forest, walking
along its long and winding path.
        It was so beautiful inside. The sounds, the smells, and the
sights were unlike anything she had ever experienced, and nothing
at all like she had imagined. The trees, for example, looked like gi-
ant arrows sticking out of the ground. Their pointy leaves smelt
like a mix between a brand-new book and a sparkling clean toilet.
And the sounds that came from inside them were all frenzied and
raucous as if a thousand birds were arguing in a thousand different
tongues about a thousand different things.
        It was all so wonderful. It was all so amazing.
        The path itself, though, was full of caution. All along the
way, there were signs posted here and there – this way and that –
saying:
        ‘Do not stray from the path.’
        ‘Be a good girl.’
        ‘Listen to Mother.’
        ‘WATCH OUT FOR WOLVES!!!’
        It was enough to have her shivering with the hebegebees.
        Like a good girl, Red kept to the path and walked in the
middle, careful never to stray to one side or the other. As she got
further into the forest, though, the sound of birds chirping started
to wane until, when she arrived at the place where the trees were
crooked and smelled like rotting meat, there was no sound what-
soever.
        It was too late to turn back, and even if she could, Mother
would kill her – ﬁguratively, of course. So, Red did her best to
pretend she wasn’t scared and instead, she pretended that she was
playing one of her games – The Case of the Missing Picnic Bas-
ket. This, though, was a case she had already solved, and she was

                                 57
now bringing the basket back to its lucky owner – Grandma – who
would no doubt be over the moon that Red was able to crack the
case. Thinking of Grandma as happy made her happy and being
happy made her stop thinking about the wolf.
        “Hey, little girl, whatcha doin?”
        Red panicked. She stopped in her tracks; petriﬁed, ossiﬁed,
still.
        “Don’t be scared, little girl. I’m not gonna hurt you.”
        It wasn’t a person, that’s for sure. Its voice was too low; it
was gurgly and gravelly and gruff. In fact, if a dishwasher could
talk, that’s exactly what it would have sounded like.
        “Come here, little girl. Come to Mr Wolf. I’ll keep you safe.”
        Red tried to ignore it. She knew it was a wolf. It had to be.
Only wolves snuck about connivingly, trying to eat children. What
she didn’t know, though, was where it was.
        Was it on one side or the other, beneath a blanket of leaves,
coiled to spring out and snatch her? Or was it tiptoeing through
the shadows, sneaking up behind her?
        “Come into the woods,” said Mr Wolf. “Stray from the path.
You can trust me.”
        It was beside her. And it was behind her. Its voice was ev-
erywhere.
        “Come to Mr Wolf.”
        “I don’t believe in wolves,” shouted Red.
        “Well, wolves believe in you,” was its reply.
        “You can’t hurt me,” shouted Red, pretending to be brave –
for her as much as it.
        “I don’t wanna hurt you, little girl,” it said in a tone that was
impossible to believe. “I just want to be your friend. You trust Mr
Wolf, now, don’t you?”
        “No!” shouted Red. “You’re a wolf. You’re dangerous. You’re
a diabolical double-dealing devil! There’s no way I trust you.”
        Then she grabbed her basket and continued on.
        “Come back, little girl. Don’t make me make you!”
        Red screamed and ran. She ran faster than a Cheetah. She
ran faster than a laser beam. She ran faster than she had ever run

                                   58
before. She didn’t stop either, not until the trees were like arrows
again, not until she was well and truly out of the darkness and the
shadows – not until she had reached Grandma’s cottage.
       “Hello?” she said, knocking on the door.
       Red was nervous and sweating. Her face was as red as her
cloak.
       “Grandma, are you home?”
       There was no answer. Red looked over her shoulder. She saw
no sign of that wolf.
       “It’s me, Red,” she said.
       The door was unlocked. It was ajar in fact. That wasn’t
strange. Of course, it wasn’t. Lots of people who lived in scary old
cottages, in the scary part of the forest, left their doors improperly
closed. There was no reason to worry. No reason at all.
       “I’m coming in, Grandma.”
       It was a small cottage. There was one main room with a ﬁre-
place, a dining table, and a big bed in the corner. And on the other
side of the bed was a bathroom, but its door was shut.
       “Grandma?” said Red, cautiously.
       She crept towards the bed in the corner, the wood beneath
her feet creaking as she tried to quietly tiptoe across the room.
       “Grandma, it’s me, Red,” she whispered.
       She could see a shadow – a silhouette – in the bed. It wasn’t
moving. She assumed it was Grandma. Who else would it be? Ob-
viously, she was sleeping.
       Red thought about dropping the basket on the ﬂoor and run-
ning home. Then she remembered the wolf in the forest and that
plan quickly soured. Then she remembered that Grandma didn’t
just need the basket, she needed help – for Grandma had little ears
and little eyes, and could hear about as well as she could see, which
was not very well at all.
       “She just hasn’t heard me or seen me,” thought Red. “I just
need to get close to her – right up to her face.”
       So, she did just that.
       Red climbed right up onto Grandma’s bed and sat beside her
so that Grandma could see to whom it was she was speaking and

                                 59
hear what was being said. Red was so excited.
       Grandmas always gave the biggest, the warmest, and the
most loving hugs.
       “Hi, Grandma,” said Red. “It’s me, your granddaughter, Red.”
       There was no reply. If she were sleeping, it was indeed quite
sound.
       “Wakey, wakey, Grandma.”
       Red, leaned close to her ear to speak louder.
       “Oh my,” she said. “What great big ears you have.”
       It’s true. Grandma’s ears were enormous. They stuck up like
two antennae – all pointy and sharp at the ends. And they were
hairy too – lots of hair - inside, and out.
       “Must be a medical contraption,” said Red to herself. “So,
she can hear better.”
        She called to her Granma again, this time hovering right
over her eyes for she knew that Grandma had such terrible sight.
       “Oh my,” she said. “What great big eyes you have.”
       And they were. Enormous in fact. Never before had a person
ever had eyes as big as Grandmas. They looked like two great big
dinner plates. Not like normal eyes at all.
       “Probably a medical contraption,” said Red to herself. “So,
she can see better.”
       Grandma didn’t move, though. Not an inch, not at all.
       Worried, Red pressed her ears to Grandma’s chest to hear if
she was breathing – she was. Then she checked Grandma’s pulse to
see if she had a heartbeat – she did. It was then that she screamed.
       “Wolf!”
       It wasn’t Grandma in that bed. It was a wolf – a wolf dressed
in Grandma’s clothing. Red jumped off the bed and burst out the
front door screaming. She barely got a foot outside before she
bumped into the biggest man she had ever seen in her life and fell
backwards.
       “Fear not, little girl,” he said.
       “It’s you,” said Red, surprised, and relieved. “The Woods-
man.”
       “It is I,” said The Woodsman.

                                60
      “Please, sir, you have to help. My Grandma is not my Grand-
ma,” said Red.
      “She isn’t? Well, then who is she?”
      “She’s a wolf,” decried Red. “A wolf is in Grandma’s clothes.”
      “A wolf, is it?” said The Woodsman, carrying his sharp and
shiny axe. “Well, we can’t have that now, can we?”
      He walked into the cottage by himself and gave the most
thunderous roar.
      “You diabolical double-dealing devil,” he shouted. “I damn
you to hell!”
      Then there came the most calamitous sounds.
      Womp! Thwack! Kerplunk!
      “You can come in, dear Red,” he said.
      Red entered slowly, a little unsure. It had been such a fright-
ening day.
      “How did you know my name?” she asked.
      The Woodsman lay his axe on the bed. It was a sharp and
shiny axe.
      “You do what I say,” he said.
      “Excuse me?”
      Red was ever so polite.
      “Shut up. Don’t say a word. You do what I say when I say it.”
      “What do you mean? I don’t understand.”
      Then, The Woodsman punched Red in the mouth. Three of
her teeth fell out.
      “I said shut up,” he said. “You don’t speak. Not unless told
to.”
      Red had two of the teeth in her hands. The other had fallen
on the ﬂoor. Blood poured out of her mouth. She was in too much
shock, though, to really feel anything.
      “You be a good girl, and this won’t hurt a bit,” said The
Woodsman.
      Then he took Red by the hair and dragged her into the bath-
room, and then locked the door behind him. There, in the dark,
Red felt the pain pulsing in her face. She couldn’t see a thing, but
she could feel the cool blood pouring out of her mouth, onto her

                                 61
chin, and dripping onto her hands below.
         “Don’t say anything. Don’t say a word.”
         It wasn’t Grandma speaking. It wasn’t even a person. Its
voice was too low; it was gurgly and gravelly and gruff.
         “It’s you,” she said – barely, for her mouth was full of blood.
         “Keep quiet, little girl,” said Mr Wolf. “He’ll hear and we’ll
be done for.”
         It was Mr Wolf. It had been him all along. He hadn’t just
followed Red through the forest; he had beaten her to Grandma’s
house and dressed himself in all her things.
         “What did you do with Grandma?” said Red.
         “Grandma? There is no Grandma. There never has been.”
         “This is my Grandma’s cottage. She’s weak and old. She can’t
hear or see well. I came here to give her a basket.”
         “You’ve been told a lie,” said Mr Wolf. “There is no Grand-
ma that resides here. This cottage is a place of no good. It’s a place
of unspeakable evil.”
         “Don’t lie to me. You’re a wolf. You’re conniving. All you do
is lie. You’re a diabolical double-dealing devil. That’s what you are.”
         “I’m a wolf,” said Mr Wolf.
         “And?”
         “Those traits you mention are only for people.”
         “I don’t believe you.”
         “I tried to warn you. I tried to take you off the path.”
         “You wanted to eat me.”
         “I wanted to save you. I knew where you were going. I knew
what they would do when you got here. I’ve seen it happen before,
hundreds of times. I tried to warn you, little girl.”
         “Well, you did a pretty crappy job,” said Red.
         She sounded angrier than she was scared.
         “Try using a nicer voice next time. One that doesn’t sound
like you’re gonna eat the person. Maybe then I’ll believe you.”
         “Your mind was made up either way,” said Mr Wolf.
         Outside the door, The Woodsman was busy setting up a
tonne of contraptions. Across the bed, he lay leather straps with
padlocked cuffs on either end. In front of the bed, he set up a video

                                  62
camera, and connected to it, by the side of the bed, was a computer
with which the video camera was sending a signal.
       “We can get out of this,” said Mr Wolf. “But we have to work
together.”
       Trust a wolf ? Was Mr Wolf crazy? Was she?
       “Ok,” said Red. “How?”
       “The Woodsman thinks I’m unconscious. He thinks I’m
asleep.”
       “How do you know?”
       “The food in your basket is drugged. I knew that before he
gave me some. I pretended to eat that piece of cake. I pretended
to be asleep. I let him dress me in Grandma’s clothes. And I waited
for you, to save you.”
       It all seemed so unreal – evil woodsmen, friendly wolves.
       “Take off your cloak. When he takes you out, drop it, so that
the hood catches in the door. When his back is turned, I’ll come
and rescue you and we’ll run away together.”
       Here was a wolf asking for her trust.
       “Ok,” she said, taking off the cloak.
       A minute later, The Woodsman opened the door and grabbed
Red by the hair again, pulling her out into the living room and
throwing her onto the bed. She dropped, as Mr Wolf had asked, her
red cloak in the arch of the door as she was being pulled through,
while Mr Wolf, like he said he would, pretended to be asleep.
       The Woodsman punched her in the face once more, just so
she would listen.
       “You see that screen,” he said, turning her head to the com-
puter.
       Red nodded.
       “Some very rich and powerful people are paying a lot of
money to watch you today,” said The Woodsman. “From all over
the world. Today you get to practice saying hello in all the languag-
es you learned. Are you excited?”
       Red shook her head.
       “No,” she said. “I want to go home. I want Mother.”
       The Woodsman slapped her. It wasn’t enough to knock out

                                 63
any more teeth, but it was ﬁrm enough to have her stop her childish
complaining.
        “You speak when I say so, and only what I tell you to say,”
said The Woodsman, tying her arms and leg down to the bed before
wiping the blood from her chin. “Understand?”
        Red nodded.
        “Remember the order,” said The Woodsman. “Italian, French,
Dutch, German, Spanish, Swiss, English, Japanese, Mandarin, Hin-
di, and Arabic.”
        Red nodded.
        “You look at the camera and you say, hi, I’m Red. Welcome
to the doom room. I’m so happy to meet you. That’s it. Nothing
more.”
        Red nodded again. She knew all the languages. She’d studied
them all her life.
        Already, there was the sound of cash registers ringing. It was
coming from the computer. The people on the screen – the rich and
powerful people – were all paying money to be allowed to watch;
lots and lots of money.
        Red was trapped. She couldn’t move her arms or her legs. All
four were shackled to the bed. She could move her head, though,
and she strained to see if Mr Wolf was coming as he promised – but
he wasn’t. He had lied, just as wolves always did. You couldn’t trust
them. They were conniving. They were diabolical double-dealing
devils.
        The Woodsman’s phone rang.
        “Yes, mam,” he said.
        It was obviously his boss.
        “We’re ready to start,” he said. “I’ll make it a wonderful show.”
        Then he took his sharp and shiny axe in hand and stood at
the foot of the bed.
        “Be a good girl,” he said.
        But he didn’t hear Mr Wolf sneaking out of the bathroom.
He didn’t see him too, ﬂying through the air and taking a bite out
of his side. So unaware was he, that The Woodsman had no time to
defend himself. Mr Wolf took a bite. The Woodsman’s sharp and

                                  64
shiny axe fell to the ground. And then he fell to the ground too,
writhing in pain.
       “We gotta go, Red,” shouted Mr Wolf, jumping up onto the
bed and chewing through the restraints. “We gotta get outta here.
Quick, before he gathers his strength.”
       Red, though, froze. Not in fear. No. She was well past fear.
There was nothing left to be afraid of. She froze because she had
had an idea.
       “Get me my red cloak,” she said.
       And Mr Wolf did just that.
       “Bring The Woodsman here,” she said.
       And Mr Wolf did just that.
       The Woodsman was big, about as big as the trees that he cut
down for a living, and about as heavy too. He could have crushed
Mr Wolf with just one punch. He could have, were not in a great
deal of pain.
       “Lay him on the bed,” said Red. “Headﬁrst.”
       She hopped off the bed and wiped the blood that pooled
from her mouth all over her face until it was as red as her cloak.
Then she picked the sharp and shiny axe up from the ground. It
was heavy. It was really heavy. But Red was smart. She had learned
all about axes. She’d learned all about math too. She knew all about
leverage. And she knew how to make an axe swing.
       “Is this thing on?” she said, looking into the camera, then at
all the faces of the rich and powerful people who were watching it
all unfold on the computer screen.
       She smiled at the camera, a maniacal toothless smile, her face
covered in blood.
       “Hi,” she said. “My name’s Red. And I’m coming for you
next!”
       And then she chopped off The Woodman’s head.
       The head went rolling to the ﬂoor. Even still, the sound of
money being paid rang out from the computer. It sounded like a
thousand cash registers all going off at once.
       Red, though, wasn’t done. She chopped off his arms and legs
too.

                                 65
      “We should go,” said Mr Wolf.
      “No,” said Red. “We’ve just started.”
      Her demeanour had changed entirely.
      “They’ve done this before,” she said. “They’ll do it again. We
have to ﬁnd out who they are and hunt them down, one by one.”
      The whole time she was looking into the camera with that
maniacal toothless smile.
      “How do we do that?” asked Mr Wolf. “I’m just a wolf. I
don’t know about computers.”
      “Well, I’m Red,” said Red. “And I do.”
      She had learned all about computers too. And in seconds she
had found what she was looking for – the I.P address of the person
who was hosting this sick, depraved party.
      “Let’s go,” she said.
      And she and Mr Wolf followed an electronic signal that she
had calculated, using the cell phone she had stolen from the pocket
of The Woodsman, whose head she had just decapitated. They fol-
lowed the signal, all the way back to Mother’s house.
      Red entered ﬁrst, axe in hand.
      “Mother?” she said, pretending to be scared.
      Conniving, she was, like a wolf, sneaking through the house.
      “Mother, are you there?”
      She dragged the axe on the ﬂoor behind her, mainly because
the sound was so scary and cool. Quickly she made her way through
the house looking for Mother. And there she found her, suitcases in
hand, trying to escape through the back door.
      “Oh, my dear Red,” said Mother. “You’re……home.”
      She sounded ﬂustered; caught – unawares, off-guard, red-
handed.
      “Why did you send me there?” asked Red.
      “I don’t know what you mean, my dear Red. Was something
wrong with Grandma?”
      “You know what I mean,” said Red, walking towards her, the
sharp and shiny axe dragging behind her.
      Mr Wolf followed, far enough, though, so he wouldn’t be
sprayed with blood.

                                66
        “Please, my dear Red. It’s not what you think.”
        “Why did you send me there?” asked Red again.
        Mother dropped her bags, dropped her phone, and fell to
the ﬂoor.
        “It wasn’t me,” she said. “It was them.”
        She pointed to the phone.
        “They made me do it.”
        “Who are they?” asked Red.
        Behind her, Mr Wolf snarled.
        “I don’t know,” said Mother. “They’re everyone. They’re ev-
erywhere. They’re rich and powerful. You can’t stop them. They’ve
been doing this forever.”
        “I’ll ﬁnd them,” said Red. “Every one of them. Everywhere.
I’ll make it stop.”
        “You’re just a child.”
        “I’m Red,” said Red.
        “That’s my gi...”
        And then her head bounced on the ﬂoor.
        “This is big, Red,” said Mr Wolf. “Real big. We’re talking
Masoud, CIA, KGB, MIT, Hollywood.”
        He sounded a little concerned; worried but not scared – he
was a wolf after all.
        “It goes right to the top. What do we do?”
        Red was already searching through Mother’s phone, and with
it, the names, and numbers of the richest and most powerful peo-
ple on the planet.
        “If no grown-up is ever gonna defend kids, well then I guess
we kids have gotta do it for ourselves. Are you in?” she asked.
        She stuck her pinkie out. There was no more solemn prom-
ise than a pinkie promise.
        “I’m in,” said Mr Wolf.
        And off they went, Red and Mr Wolf, new best friends, and
the heroes that every kid in the world needed. Who would have
thought? This time yesterday, as much as Red knew, wolves were all
diabolical double-dealing devils. And that wasn’t true at all; people
were. Grown-ups to be precise.

                                 67
       It was grown-ups that lied and hurt children. They did it
all the time. They did it to teach them lessons, and they did it just
for fun. Dangerous, they were, diabolical double-dealing devils –
grown-ups that is, not wolves.
       “Which way?” said Mr Wolf. “Left or right?”
       Red and Mr Wolf stood at a crossroads. She with her sharp
and shiny axe in her hands and a maniacal toothless smile on her
bloodied face – blood as red as her cloak. And he with his big
pointy ears, big ferocious eyes, and his big mouth full of razor-
sharp teeth.
       “I don’t think it matters,” said Red. “All roads lead to Rome.”




                                 68
69
Once upon a time, there were two small children alone in a forest;
abandoned, forsaken, and left to fend for themselves. Hansel and
Gretel were their names, and though they were only young, both
had a certain wit about them: Hansel with his fearlessness, and
Gretel with her rationale. Enough wit, that, even though they had
no idea where they were, all was not lost.
       Although Hansel and Gretel were quite cunning and brave,
the forest itself was no place for children. It was ﬁlled with all sorts
of peril, and the longer they stayed by themselves, the less chance
there was of either of the two children ever getting home again.
       There were snakes and spiders, for instance, the former slith-
ering about in the dried leaves beneath their feet, eager to paralyse
them with their bite and then swallow them whole; while the lat-
ter, hidden in the middle of giant webs that hung about like sticky
traps, waited to ensnare, and sink its fangs into the children, turn-
ing their insides into soup, and drinking them up with a straw.
       And that was just the beginning.
       There were goblins and banshees and witches too, lurking
behind every tree, underneath every rock, and ﬂying on broom-
sticks all around them.
       “Did you hear that?” asked Hansel.
       “Yes,” said Gretel. “I did. What do you think it was?”
       “Deﬁnitely a goblin,” said Hansel. “And more than one by
the sounds of it.”
       “I doubt it,” said Gretel. “Goblins are just made-up things.
It was probably a goat or just a tree, being felled somewhere way
off. That happens all the time – tress falling for no good reason.”
       “Goblins are real,” said Hansel. “How else do you explain all
the bad things that happen in the world?”
       She couldn’t. And for that reason alone, goblins were real.
       “Deﬁnitely goblins,” said Hansel.
       He didn’t sound scared, though.
       “We’d do best to get where we are getting,” said Gretel. “Be-
fore it gets dark.”
       She, too, wasn’t scared.


                                  70
       What did scare both of them, though, if ever just a bit, were
the ghosts; and of them there were many. Ghosts didn’t hide like
snakes or spiders, nor did they lurk about like goblins and banshees
and witches. No, ghosts were everywhere. They walked alongside
Hansel and Gretel, every step of the way through every inch of the
forest - the children who never made it home.
       “They’re following us,” said Hansel. “All those ghosts.”
       “They’re looking for a way out,” said Gretel. “That’s all.”
       For she was rational; nothing at all made her scared.
       Along the way, they battled a dozen snakes and escaped from
as many sticky webs, using their minds and their muscles to get
them out of trouble whenever it was that trouble sought out to get
them. And not once did they ever quiver or ﬂinch or even bat a
single eye. That wasn’t the kind of children they were.
       Fearless and rational.
       “They’re more scared of us than we are of them,” said Gre-
tel.
       “That last snake seemed pretty angry,” said Hansel. “Not
scared at all.”
       “If you saw a man scratching, would you say he had a scratch
or an itch?” asked Gretel.
       “What do a scratch and an itch has to do with a venomous
snake?”
       “Everything,” said Gretel. “The snake only bites because it is
angry, and it is only angry because it is scared. Imagine if you were
a snake. You’re basically ﬂat. You’re no bigger than a line drawn in
the ground. And you have no arms or legs to defend yourself. Then
along comes this big stupid giant, stamping its big stupid feet, mak-
ing the scariest racket, and the only thing you have to defend your-
self is your teeth; you’d be extra angry too. And the angry snake is
just scared, is all.”
       “Then why did you punch it in the face?”
       “Because I hate snakes,” said Gretel.
       She was the rational one of the two. It was her idea to use a
bottle of ink to mark their way through the forest. Hansel wanted
to use breadcrumbs. Can you believe that? Boys only ever thought

                                 71
with their bellies. If it were up to them, the world would be made
out of marshmallows and machine guns. That’s why you always
had to have girls around.
       “Don’t forget to mark the leaves,” said Gretel.
       “I was gonna do it,” said Hansel.
       “But you didn’t,” said Gretel. “And so, I reminded you.”
       “I didn’t forget.”
       He had, but not by much mind you.
       “We had passed a hundred and ﬁfty paces and you hadn’t
marked a single leaf.”
       “I was talking to you. I was going to do it.”
       “And since then, we have passed ﬁfty more.”
       “That’s because we’re arguing. If you’d quit being so picky, I
could mark the darn leaf.”
       “You distract easily,” said Gretel. “You’re fearless, yes, but
your fearlessness makes you forgetful.”
       “Does not.”
       “Does too.”
       They argued like this for enough time that it would have
taken to mark a hundred leaves. Eventually, though, they were both
distracted – not from the task at hand – but from each other.
       “What is that smell?” asked Hansel.
       There was a pungent odour. It wasn’t bad. But then again, it
wasn’t good either. It smelt as if a vat full of cow dung, ice cream,
and truck tires were slowly coming to a boil. It was both sweet and
acrid. It smelled poisonous yet delightful.
       “We should heed with caution,” said Gretel.
       Hansel, though, was already running.
       “It’s a candy house,” he shouted.
       It was the ﬁrst time he sounded like a little boy. Up until that
point, he had been fearless and stern, focused only on punching
spiders and snakes, and doing away with goblins and banshees and
witches. Now, though, he skipped out of the forest, down towards
the old cottage, like any ten-year-old boy would – giddy and full of
glee.
       “Boys...” said Gretel, shaking her head in disbelief.

                                  72
       She caught up to him right at the entry to the cottage. The
doors were locked, and the lights were off. It didn’t look like any-
body was home.
       “You see what I see, right?”
       Hansel was gobsmacked!
       “It’s a cottage,” he said. “Made entirely of candy.”
       Gretel, though, was unimpressed.
       “How is this not the greatest thing you’ve ever seen in your
life?”
       “Who would make a cottage out of candy?” asked Gretel.
       “Who cares?” said Hansel. “It’s a candy cottage. An actual
candy cottage. Look,” he said, biting into a beam of what should
have been wood, but was actually toffee. “I’m eating the house.”
       “Cottage,” said Gretel. “It’s a cottage.”
       “A candy cottage.”
       It all seemed puzzling to Gretel.
       “This can’t be structurally sound,” she said.
       “Stop being such a nerd,” said Hansel.
       “I can’t imagine rain would be much good. I mean, these
walls look soluble. Is that…?”
       “Yes! Gingerbread!”
       “You sneeze and those walls are coming down.”
       By this stage, Hansel had already eaten through the lock on
the front door. It was made entirely of cookies and gummy bears.
       “Let’s go in,” he said.
       “Ok,” said Gretel. “But, please, don’t be distracted.”
       Too late!
       Gretel had barely gotten through the door and Hansel had
already stuffed his mouth with Skittles and chocolate fondue and
fairy ﬂoss.
       “This is so good,” he said, breaking off a piece of the dining
table and handing it to Gretel. “You have to try some.”
       “You shouldn’t eat so much candy,” said Gretel. “You know
what happens.”
       “And you should stop being so serious all the time. You’ll die
of boredom.”

                                 73
       “I’m sure I won’t,” said Gretel.
       “Well, you’re killing me.”
       It was amazing he could even get a word out. His face was
so ﬁlled with candy. If he didn’t have nostrils, he probably would
have suffocated by now. Never had either one of them ever seen as
much candy before in their lives. Every inch of the cottage, from
the ﬂoors to the ceilings and everything in between – all of it – was
all made out of gelatine and sugar.
       “Just one piece, then,” said Gretel.
       She had maybe ﬁfty, maybe a hundred. Hansel had ten thou-
sand times more. They both ate so much candy that their teeth
nearly dropped out. They ate so much that they had to chase each
other in circles and do super-duper cartwheels all over the place just
so they burn off enough energy so that they could eat some more.
Then, as Gretel had warned, both of them crashed.
       “I’m so tired,” said Hansel, curling up on the sofa. “I could
sleep for days.”
       “Me too,” said Gretel, lying under the table, on the ﬂoor.
       Exhausted by all the commotion, Hansel and Gretel fell
asleep. So tired were they, the sound of the front door opening
didn’t disturb them. So tired were they, the sound of an old witch
cackling didn’t perturb them. So tired were they, there was no way
they could protect themselves.
       “Got you, little ﬁend,” cried The Old Witch, whipping Han-
sel up off the sofa and shoving him into a small iron cage.
       The Old Witch examined him. She poked around with her
disgusting and grubby ﬁnger – sticking it in his ear and picking at
all the wax; then shoving it into his mouth and rubbing it against
his gums and teeth.
       “Those teeth,” she said, cackling. “So white, so clean. They’ll
make a wonderful necklace.”
       Then she grabbed his arms and yanked on them hard; squeez-
ing from his shoulder down to his pinkie ﬁnger as if the boy were
a piece of store-bought fruit.
       “Wonderful bones,” she said, with a cackle. “Not brittle at
all.”

                                 74
       Then she put a padlock on the cage – locking in tight.
       “Yes, you’ll do nicely,” she said, cackling hysterically as she
did.
        Witches loved to cackle. It was probably their favourite thing
in the world; apart from eating children of course.
       “Best to ﬁre up the stove.”
       The Old Witch sang horrible rhymes to herself as she skipped
about her cottage grabbing this and grabbing that - all sorts of in-
struments and ingredients. There were things for prodding, things
for pulling, things for squashing and things for taking the skin from
a child’s bones. And she set all those things on the table that was
next to the giant cauldron that sat on top of a roaring ﬁre – the
whole time, singing her horrible song.
       She must have rhymed eat with feet a hundred times. And
it was clear, by her rhyme, that the best way to cook a child was
tempered and mild.
       “Wake up you foul little ﬁend,” she said, dragging Hansel out
by the scruff of the neck.
       Her voice sounded shrill, just like a dentist’s drill.
       “A nice warm bath will take the collagen right off those
bones,” she said.
       Hansel lay on the ground by the big cauldron. So tired was
he, Hansel was about to sleep through his own death. Beside him,
though, neath the table, a little girl stirred. For the little girl was
only pretending to be asleep. For, unlike her brother who couldn’t
help but ﬁll his belly with sugary treats, Gretel hadn’t swallowed a
single one.
       And while The Old Witch ﬁlled the big cauldron with gal-
lons of vinegar, Gretel hatched a plan. She crept out from under-
neath the table and tiptoed across the room. The Old Witch was
right in front of the cauldron. If she were quiet, The Old Witch
wouldn’t hear. If she were fast, she could throw her right into that
boiling vinegar and the two could escape.
       “I’ll get to you soon enough,” said The Old Witch in her
cackly voice, as she slowly stirred the boiling liquid.
       Gretel gasped.

                                  75
       “Not quiet or fast enough,” said The Old Witch.
       Then she turned to Gretel. Her face was all wrinkled and
ragged. It was covered in blisters and boils and sores. Her teeth,
too, were all missing. All except one that is. It stuck out from her
mouth like a clothes tag, and it wobbled whenever she swirled from
side to side, the thick clump of phlegm inside her mouth.
       “You’re well-fed,” she said, surprised. “Well dressed. Your
hair is well-groomed. More so than the last children. Your father
must be important?”
       “Our father is a good man,” said Gretel. “He will worry
about us if we are not home.”
       “What good man would let his children wander so freely –
and to a place as difﬁcult to ﬁnd as this?”
       “I don’t know who you think we are, but we are certainly
not them. My name is Gretel and that is my brother Hansel. Our
father is a woodsman. He is a simple man. We are a simple family.
We do not have much wealth. I hope you can see that this is why
my brother was so taken away by your cottage made of sweets. I
hope you can forgive us.”
       “Not even God will forgive you, Nazi swine.”
       “We’re not Nazis,” said Gretel.
       “I know a Nazi when I see one,” said The Old Witch. “Chil-
dren or not. You’ll grow up just like the rest of them. You’ll be
murderers and butchers too. You’ll be killers, just like every one of
them.”
       “That’s not true,” said Gretel. “We’re good children. I prom-
ise. We are well mannered. We do always as we are told. We never
speak back to elders. We are good children. The best, even. We
didn’t do anything to you, lady.”
        “You broke into my house,” said The Old Witch. “You ate
my things.”
       “That’s true,” said Gretel. “We did. But we didn’t mean any
harm. My brother can sometimes think with his belly and therefore
he loses his head. I implore you; we are but children.”
       “A spider is born a spider,” said The Old Witch. “And a snake
is always born a snake. A Nazi is a Nazi, through and through, no

                                 76
matter how old. Eventually, your fangs will come in. Eventually,
you’ll grow your venom.”
        “I’m just a little girl,” said Gretel. “And Hansel is just a little
boy. We don’t want to hurt people. I want to play the violin when
I’m older. I want to play concertos all around the world. And Han-
sel wants to be a vet. He wants to look after baby otters. We’re
children. If you kill us, how are you any different to those killers
you talk of ?”
        “A moral violence is a just violence,” said The Old Witch.
“Your deaths will be a favour paid in advance. The world will be a
better place. History will thank me.”
        “There is no moral violence,” said Gretel. “There is no good
and just reason to kill a person. I think you just like killing children
and you pretend you’re doing good – you pretend that you care so
you don’t have to feel bad.”
        It was true. The Old Witch had been killing children for ae-
ons, long before the war had broken out. The stories of this old
cottage – the cottage made of candy – was part of folklore. Her
moral stance was just a convenient rouse.
        “Was there no candy here at all that wetted your interest?”
she asked.
        “What?”
        “I thought all you Nazis loved sweet things.”
        She seemed surprised that Gretel hadn’t eaten a thing.
        “You ate no candy at all.”
        “I don’t like candy,” said Gretel.
        “Neither do I,” said The Old Witch.
        “Well, then why do you have a cottage made of it?”
        “Because children cannot resist. A place such as this, no
adult could ever ﬁnd. Their tastes are too ardent and bitter. Chil-
dren, though, are special. Children always ﬁnd their way.”
        “How dare you,” decried Gretel. “What good can ever come
from hurting children?”
        The Old Witch smiled. It seemed so obvious. So much so
that, like any good joke, it almost pained her to have to explain it.
        “Do you know how candy is made?” she asked.

                                    77
       “I don’t know,” said Gretel. “Sugar?”
       “Gelatine,” said The Old Witch. “Made out of collagen.”
       Then she pointed to a box, one ﬁlled with the remains of
ﬁfty dead children.
       “And you know how we get collagen?”
       “No,” said Gretel.
       “Straight off the bone,” said The Old Witch, cackling.
       Then she grabbed Hansel from the ground and lifted him
onto her shoulders, so as to throw him into the cauldron full of
boiling vinegar.
       Gretel didn’t ﬂinch. Without even thinking, she picked up
a chair made out of hard rock candy and threw it at the support
beam that Hansel had been eating; the one made out of toffee. She
could have thrown a handkerchief and that beam would have come
falling to the ground.
       That’s just what happened, though. The beam, the roof, and
the walls made of gingerbread, all crumbled and fell around them,
knocking The Old Witch to the ground, and letting Hansel fall free.
       “Wake up, Hansel,” shouted Gretel.
       She shook and slapped her brother.
       “We have to go, Hansel. We have to run.”
       Hansel opened his eyes. They were tired and weary.
       “What’s happening?” he said.
       “The Old Witch tried to boil you. She’s crazy. She’s mad. I
told you this would happen. The cottage was a trap. We have to go.
We have to run.”
       She grabbed Hansel from underneath the rubble of ginger-
bread and toffee.
       “Go!” she screamed.
       Then Hansel and Gretel ran out the door.
       “Come back here,” shouted The Old Witch.
       She pulled herself from under the rubble and took a trun-
cheon and a serrated knife from the dining table – the kind that was
good for carving skin off bone. Then she ran out after the kids,
cackling – because cackling was what witches loved to do.
       “You ruined my cottage,” she screamed.

                                 78
       The Old Witch stumbled outside, cursing the children.
       “Come back here now! You owe me your collagen! Give me
your bones!”
       Hansel and Gretel ran, looking over their shoulders the
whole time.
       “Do not stop,” shouted Gretel.
       But the choice wasn’t theirs. Barely an inch from freedom,
both children were jolted and fell backwards onto the grass, while
behind them, The Old Witch cackled and cursed, promising to do
the most abhorrent, cruel, and grotesque things when she ﬁnally
got her disgusting and grubby hands on them.
       “Well, well, well,” said a man’s voice, standing over the two
children. “What do we have here?”
       “Father!” shouted Hansel.
       “Father!” shouted Gretel.
       Both were relieved. They were safe. They were saved. They
both jumped up off the ground and then into Father’s arms, hug-
ging him as tight as they could.
       “My oh my,” said Father. “How far you did wander.”
       “The Old Witch tried to eat us,” said Hansel.
       He sounded scared, now that he was in his father’s embrace
as if he no longer had to put up a front as if he were never truly
fearless, to begin with.
       “I am so proud of you both,” said Father.” “You must have
been so scared.”
       “I wasn’t scared,” said Hansel.
       “Neither was I,” said Gretel.
       “Well, of that, I am sure. But it was an incredibly brave act
regardless. This witch has murdered over ﬁfty children. Boils them
all in vinegar, she does; to strip the collagen from their bones so
that she can make her candy cottage.”
       The children were shocked. Hansel had eaten so much.
       “It’s lucky I arrived when I did,” said Father. “Or that witch
would have made candy from you.”
       Then he embraced his two children.
       “I love you,” he said.

                                 79
        “I love you, too, daddy,” said Hansel.
        “I love you, more,” said Gretel.
        Father smiled. His children seemed so grown up all of a sud-
den. What happened to those two little rascals that could bare-
ly pronounce their own names, let alone tie their own shoelaces.
Where had the time gone? How had he let it slip by?
        “I promise,” said Father. “When we get home, and for the
rest of the week too, there is no work, only games.”
        “Really?” both children cried at once – a cry of sheer joy.
        “I promise,” said Father. “This week we will do whatever
you want to do. Anything at all.”
        “You’re the best dad in the world,” said Hansel.
        “I double that,” said Gretel. “The best dad in the whole uni-
verse.”
        Father knew, though, that a tree was known only by its fruit,
so if he were the best dad in the world, it was only because he had
the best children in the world.
        “Kill the Jew,” said Father. “And burn this crooked and con-
temptible cottage to the ground.”
        “Yes, sir,” said one of his lieutenants.
        From out of the forest came scores of uniformed ofﬁcers,
all of them wielding machine guns and ﬂame throwers. They set
alight the candy cottage, ﬁring thousands of rounds of ammuni-
tion as they did, emptying their machine guns, laughing, smoking
their cigarettes, and singing songs about hope and prosperity and
their devotion to the motherland – Germany.
        “Your mother would be so proud,” said Father.
        Behind him, ﬂames crackled.
        “So apt,” he said. “So astute. I’m ever so proud of you.”
        “Hansel ate all the candy,” said Gretel, disgruntled.
        “Did not!”
        “Did too,” said Gretel. “And he nearly got himself killed.”
        “Yes, but he had you, his masterful and cunning sister. None
smarter. None more clever. Cleverer than I even. You captured
The Jew Witch, all by yourselves. Both of you. And whose idea was
it to ink the leaves?”

                                 80
       “Mine,” said Gretel.
       “Amazing. So much better than breadcrumbs.”
       Gretel stuck her tongue out at Hansel.
       “Without the ink, we would never have been able to follow
you. And,” he said as if he had just remembered the most fantastic
news. “We would never have found and imprisoned ﬁfty goblins
which were hiding in the woods along the way.’
       “I told you it was goblins,” said Hansel.
       Then he stuck his tongue out at Gretel.
       “Because of you, my dear children,” said Father. “No child
will ever get hurt again. You are heroes. The both of you.”
       Hansel and Gretel were budding with pride.
       “I love you so much, my dear children,” said Father.
       “I love you too,” said Hansel.
       “I love you more,” said Gretel.
       “Now let’s get home.”
       “Yay!”
       And so, Hansel and Gretel ran home, jumping about like
blown up balloons – such was the gravity of the love and joy in
their hearts. They might have even ﬂoated off into space altogether
were it not for Father holding so tightly onto each of their little
hands.
       And as for The Old Witch, well she was dragged away kick-
ing and screaming – shouting all kinds of obscenities; words too
vulgar to imagine, let alone mention in a story.
       “A pox on those damn children,” she screamed. “A pox on
you all.”
       Then she was thrown into the back of a truck crowded with
ﬁfty gipsies and Jews, all of them children no older than Hansel
and Gretel themselves. And then the truck was set on ﬁre.




                                81
82
Once upon a time, there was a man who was running. All-day he had
been running, in fact. Fast, he was, and constantly out of breath,
but never once did the thought of stopping or slowing down ever
cross his mind. He wasn’t running for ofﬁce, nor was he running
for some charitable cause. He wasn’t running either, for the last
parting train, one that would shuttle him to a quiet lake where, sit-
ting on a wooden bench, his true love waited, full of excited and
worrisome nerves, for a tender kiss that would lift them both from
the gulf of their loneliness. No. He was running for a more press-
ing matter – one of dire and irreversible consequence.
        He was running, you see, running for his dear life.
        “What do you want from me?” he screamed.
        The Assailant, though, didn’t respond; he wasted not a single
breath. Tired, he was. Exhausted, even. As spent as The Man him-
self. But just like his intrepid victim, he let not the desire for com-
fort or ease take precedence in his thoughts.
        Instead, driven by a motivation to kill, he pressed onwards.
        “Run, if you will,” he thought to himself. “For I know your
every step.”
        And he did. Without fail, The Assailant stayed barely a hand’s
reach away with every twist and turn, with every duck and weave,
and with every leap and bound of the man who outran him, riding
the coattails of his victim’s stubborn preference to not be dead.
        Give up, though, neither man would.
        Nor would they concede nary an inch of ﬂight or ﬂight be-
tween them. For run, they did, away from and after one another
like seconds in the day, the distance between them both precise and
unrelenting. But they couldn’t keep this up forever. Eventually, one
of them would have to forfeit their adventure.
        And when ﬁnally, The Man did collapse, so too did The As-
sailant topple over with him. Fall, they did, like heavy stones tossed
from a bridge, their bodies beaten and sore, their ﬂattened lungs
like ripped and torn balloons.
        “Please, enough,” said The Man. “I cannot take anymore.”
        Come to terms, he had, with his impending fate.
        The Assailant, though, was just as bothered. The same

                                  83
distance that had separated the two men in their plight, did so now
as they lay barely a hand’s reach from one another – almost stran-
gling distance – and yet neither one could wiggle a single toe.
       “What did I do to you?” pleaded The Man, wheezing through
every syllable.
       Befuddled, he was, bamboozled and gobsmacked even,
almost as much as he was horriﬁed, petriﬁed, and chilled to the
bloody bone. For never in his life had he ever done wrong to a
single person.
       He had been honest, polite, and acquiescent at every turn;
never taking what was not his, and never spending what had not
been earned. He had helped the poor with his spare change and
read stories to the bedridden, sick, and inﬁrmed with his spare
time. He had, before this moment, never raised his voice at an-
other man, nor had he, in the comeuppance of others, cast a single
judging stone.
       Why then, was this assailant so bent on hunting him down?
       “I will run no more,” he said. “I am done.”
       The way he spoke, it was as if a second wind had only just
become him, but rather than taking ﬂight and prolonging this futile
charade, he thought it best – in clear and sound mind – to meet his
fate once and for all.
       “Kill me then,” he said, his words carved from courage and
honour. “Strike me if that is your will. But you will take nothing
from me, nothing that a cold breeze, rotten meat, or time itself
can’t take. There is no valour in taking a man’s life, just as there is
no glory. A life, that even without murder, would end entirely on its
own. Where is the merit in that?”
       The Man was no longer afraid. Stare, he did, at the onset of
death with the same fret and folly as he would a punctured tire.
There was not a drop of bother in his voice, nor was there a sign
of apprehension in how he stood. Bold, he was, as if death were
no grounds for weakness or concern.
       The Assailant, too, got to his feet. He had not a single weap-
on on him – no gun, no knife. Instead, he held his hands outwards,
barely one step away from closing around The Man’s neck, so as

                                  84
to snuff him of his life.
        He had waited so long for this day. Suffered, he had, his
whole damn life.
        “So, do it,” said The Man. “Just get it over and done with.”
        The Assailant, though, for some reason could not. It had
been much easier to chase The Man than it was right now, to end
his life. He was not as swift as a cold breeze, nor was his heart as
dank and bitter as rotten meat. And he had not the patience of
time.
        “I have to do this,” he said, almost as if he were trying to
convince himself. “I have no choice. I cannot go on a single day
longer. You would understand,” he said. “You would, were you to
see how fraught and lonely the sun sets in the morrow.”
        The Man’s hand’s stiffened, turning to ﬁsts.
        “Who are you?” he said.
        The Assailant was old, yes, his face weathered and eroded by
the stresses and burdens of time, but his likeness, in spite of his
age, was uncanny. It was unmistakable.
        “I am you,” he said. “Twenty years from now.”
        It was true. There were many years between them, but they
were indeed the very same man. They both had the same chip in
their tooth. They both had the same dimple whenever they gri-
maced or grinned. They both had the same bung knee, for when
they were children, they had both fallen from the exact same tree.
They both had the same voice, the same accent, and the same tone.
And they both stood, in just the same manner, as if one were an
exact mirror of the other.
        “I don’t understand,” said The Man.
        “I know,” said The Assailant in reply. “Neither did I?”
        “What do you mean?”
        “I’ve been here before,” said The Assailant. “I know exactly
how this will end.”
        “What are you on about?”
        “I’m not here to explain the science of things,” he said. “I’m
here to kill you.”
        What a strange day this had been. This morning had started

                                 85
no different to any other – one of seamless and impassive rep-
etition. A day like any other day. Yet, by noon, after a rift in time
and space opened in his living room, The Man had found himself,
instead of preparing his chickpea salad, running from a deranged
assassin who, after materializing from a seemingly vacuous black
void, initiated and precipitated the pursuit with the words, “You
must die.”
       And now here they were, reckoning with that truth.
       “We’ve been depressed,” said The Assailant. “For so very,
very long, and we cannot take anymore.”
       “What do you mean we? My life is ﬁne.”
       “It won’t be,” said The Assailant.
       “How do you know?”
       The look in his eyes said more than words ever could.
       “I ﬁnd no happiness in life,” he said. “Nothing brings me
wonder for I know that all is futile. And nothing at all, no matter
how big or small, nothing brings me effervescence or joy.”
       “Why me, then? What is killing me going to do?”
       “I cannot live any longer,” said The Assailant. “But I have
not the will to kill myself. Nor do I have the courage to die alone.”
       “And so, by killing me, what?”
       “Then my timeline ends with you. I will end with you.”
       “I will die,” decried The Man.
       “We will die,” said The Assailant, consolingly. “Trust me, you
don’t want to go on. It’s terrible. Each day is worse than the last.
The morning breeze tastes like remorse and the setting sun smears
the sky with regret. At least here,” he said. “Here we can die to-
gether. Here, we don’t have to die alone.”
       “But I am not you,” said The Man. “Surely you can see that
as you stand before me. We are two separate men. I have not lived
my life yet. Nor have I lived it as you have lived yours. Your fate,
your suffering, and your misery are of your own making. As absurd
and as non-sensical as this all is, one need not a higher education
to see we are not the same man. And I will not die here. Not at my
hands, and not at your own.”
       Then he struck The Assailant. He struck him swift in the

                                 86
throat, knocking his attacker to the ground. Having been here be-
fore, though, The Assailant knew exactly how it would end. He
grasped at his throat and choked for air, his eyes bulging and his
face as red as the blood in his veins.
       The Man didn’t slow his assault.
       He took a rock from the ground and smashed it into The As-
sailant’s face until well after his teeth had broken; well, too, after his
nose and cheeks had caved in. Smash and batter, he did, until well
after the bones in The Assailant’s face had all but turned to dust.
       “What have I done?” said The Man, staring at the headless
body.
       Run, he did, as fast as he could, he ran back to his home to
wash the blood off his hands. No amount of soap, though, would
ever clean the wretched stain in his mind, that which sickened his
belly with remorse and regret.
       From his living room ﬂoor, he gathered the small device
with which The Assailant had used to bridge their two points in
time and space. He wished and willed to smash it to a thousand
pieces, just as he had The Assailant’s face, yet he could not.
       Instead, he turned it off so that the rift between the present
and the future closed like a healing wound, and then placed the
device on a shelf between the small trinkets and ornaments which
once had brought him wonder, and the pictures of the people in
his life who had, before this day, brought him effervescence and
joy; emotions he would never feel again.
       Stare at that device, he did, day and night he stared. And as
he did, he suffered, each day worse than the last. If this were true,
if there were indeed only one timeline in which all things passed
then even though he lived today, there was a future where - no
matter what kind of life he led, no matter how much he redeemed
himself – paradoxically, he did not.
       The future, whether he liked it or not, had no place for him.
       Stew on this, he did. For years his worry simmered and boiled.
Alone and miserable, he saw how futile it all was. No amount of
evasion could have him escape that which had already occurred.
He, himself, could only live as long as his future-self had. And

                                   87
then, when he did reach that point in time, there would be no to-
morrow, for time itself, at least for The Man’s sake, was not linear
and would not go onwards. It would, instead, arc backwards to that
one fateful day.
      And this paradox in time would repeat forever.
      He could kill himself now. He could sever this inescapable
loop. He could put an end to this curse once and for all. He could,
but he was scared. He had not the will to kill himself, nor the cour-
age to die alone.




                                 88
89
Once upon a time, there was an architect, and his name was God.
       “Actually, it was Gary.”
       Right. Sorry.
       Once upon a time, there was an architect named Gary. And
ever since he was a boy, Gary was obsessed with amusement parks.
It was all he ever thought about.
       “Can we go to an amusement park, mum?”
       “Ask your father.”
       “Can we go to an amusement park, dad?”
       “No.”
       Gary never bothered to ask why. He knew just what the an-
swer would be.
       “Because I said so!”
       So instead, Gary sat in his room day and night imagining
what it would be like to swing on the swings, slide on the slide, and
ride the biggest and scariest rollercoaster in the world.
       “Who’s brave enough to ride the mountain of perilous death
and doom?”
       In a small cardboard box, he would sit, Gary and his favou-
rite toys, and he would shut his eyes as he imagined the rollercoaster
slowly creeping upwards, creaking as it did, as if all the mechanics
were on the cusp of failure. Then he would scream with delight as
it rushed downwards at the speed of light, ﬂipping to the left, then
ﬂipping to the right, almost throwing him out entirely, before rac-
ing back up again into a giant loop-de-loop.
       “Woohoo!”
       He had the greatest time ever.
       “This is the best!”
       Soon enough, though, the box would rip, and the fun would
wear off. Pretending was never enough. Imagining was awesome,
sure, but not as much as the real thing. Gary knew that. And so,
year after year, he persisted.
       “Can we go to an amusement park, mum?”
       “Ask your father.”
       “Can we go to an amusement park, dad?”
       “No!”

                                 90
       It went on like this for years until ﬁnally, there came a day
when Gary was old enough to make decisions for himself. He was
a grown man now and he could do whatever he pleased – within
reason, of course.
       “I’m gonna go to an amusement park, mum.”
       “Good for you, son.”
       “I’m gonna go to an amusement park, dad.”
       “Good luck with that, son.”
       But when that time did come, poor Gary was shocked and
disheartened when he found out the sad and crummy truth -
amusement parks didn’t exist. They never had. They never would.
Nobody had ever heard of them. It had all just been a ﬁgment of
his imagination.
       “Tried to tell you, son,” said his father. “But you never lis-
ten.”
        Gary, though, was put off not one bit.
       “I’ll just have to make one for myself,” he said, expertly.
       And he could, too – in theory, of course. He knew all there
was to know about amusement parks. He had spent his whole life
dreaming them up. He knew the ins and outs of every swing, slide,
and rollercoaster, and all the colours of every fairy ﬂoss and con-
cession stand. He knew the park better than he did, the back of his
own hand.
        And Gary wasted no time at all. He got to work straight
away, plotting and planning every square inch of the park on blue-
prints. He drew every ride by hand and the smiles of every person
riding them. He drew all the cars in the car park, the babies in the
creche, the old folks in the bingo hall, even the ducks that would
make their nests, in a shrub by the lake. He drew families all hug-
ging and singing songs, lovers holding hands and skipping along
the grassy verges, and strangers roasting marshmallows by an open
ﬁre at night. He drew the swings, the slides, and the rollercoasters,
and all the happy people who were lining up to ride them.
       Soon enough he was ready to start building.
       “That looks awful hard,” said Mum.
       “Doesn’t look very easy,” said Dad. “Why don’t you put your

                                 91
time into something more constructive.”
       It wasn’t easy either, building a whole world, it seemed, from
the memories he had had as a boy. He ran into hundreds of prob-
lems; and along the way, he nearly gave up a hundred times. He
didn’t, though. And he wasn’t going to rest; not until the park was
complete.
       “It’s done!” said Gary. “What do you think?”
       The park was enormous. It was as big as a small city. There
was enough parking for a million cars and enough space inside for
ﬁfty times as many people. It was the biggest thing Mum and Dad
had seen in their lives.
       “It’s a bit big, don’t you think?” said Dad.
       “That’s the point,” said Gary. “It’s a whole world. A whole
world of fun.”
       “Who wants to have fun all the time?”
       “I don’t mind a bit of fun,” said Mum. “Roller-skates are
nice.”
       “It’ll never catch on,” said Dad. “You’ll see.”
       Dads were always too serious. Everything was always work,
work, work. That, and watching the news, and eating plenty of ﬁ-
bre. Dads were no fun at all.
       Gary, though, paid no mind. It was the grand opening today
and nothing could burst his joy or inspiration. And from the sec-
ond the gates opened; people started to pour in.
       “This is amazing,” said Gary, watching the park from his of-
ﬁce. “I can’t wait to see their faces on the rides.”
       He had installed cameras all around the park. Some of them
were for safety and security, sure, but his favourite ones were in-
stalled on the scariest part of every ride when their eyes were as
wide, and they were screaming for dear life/ and then again at the
bottom when they got off laughing and smiling – anxious and ea-
ger to ride the ride again. He couldn`t wait to see their faces.
       By lunchtime, the park was packed. There were so many
people that Gary had to shut the gates. He hadn`t expected such a
turnout. There were too many people, though, for the number of
rides he had, and pretty soon, ﬁghts broke out.

                                 92
         “We were here ﬁrst,” said one group being bullied by an-
other.
        “This is our land,” said the other group. “This is our ride. It
was promised to us, by the architect.”
        “It was promised for everyone. The Architect stated.”
        “He speaks only to us, the chosen ones. The Architect would
never speak to dogs like you. The dog in the manger – the weak-
willed mix-breed mongrel – has no right to the manger in which it
lays. Dogs have no rights!”
        And it wasn’t just them either. All around the park it seemed
different groups of people were claiming to speak on behalf of
Gary, saying that they, and only they, had been put in charge of
every ride and that, to not believe them, to not follow their way,
would mean that they would suffer; not only during their time in
the park but also outside of it. They would suffer endlessly and
painfully for all time.
        “Beware of false idols,” they preached. “There is only one
Architect.”
        There were, though, hundreds of different statues erected
around the park, all of them portraying an Architect, unlike the one
before it. Some of them were old men with white beards while oth-
ers had eight harms and an elephant’s trunk. There were some that
were men and others that were women, and there were depictions
of Architects with no faces at all. Hundreds of them, there were.
And none of them looked like Gary.
        “Hello? Hello? It’s me, Jeff. You know? From the slippery
slide.”
        Gary had put intercoms all around the park. Speciﬁcally,
though, he had placed thousands of them in every line to every
ride, in case of emergency.
        “Hello? Architect? Can you hear me?”
        At ﬁrst, there was only one person. His name was Jeff. He
had been in line for what seemed like forever. Everyone had really.
But Jeff was tired, and his feet were sore. And he thought he had
waited just about long enough. And so, he thought if he asked The
Architect, he might get moved a bit more forward in the line – a bit

                                  93
closer to the start of the ride.
       “First of all,” he said. “Thank you for the park. It’s really
great. You’re awesome. You did a fantastic job. I especially liked
the ducks. They were great. So, Architect? Can I ask a favour? Can
you help me just this one time? Can you put me at the head of the
line? I promise I’ll be good. I know I pushed in line before. But I
promise I won’t do that again. That was just an accident. I’m not
like that anymore. I promise. So…can you?”
       It wasn’t just him either. Every intercom around the park was
buzzing. Thousands of people. Hundreds of thousands, even. All
of them asking for favours – just one. All of them pleading their
case. All of them promising to do good. All of them promising to
be good. All of them, then, apologising for the wrongs that they
had done. All of them wanting to be one bit closer to the front of
the line.
       “Just this once,” they all cried.
       “I promise I’ll be good.”
       “Hail to The Architect. Hail! Hail! Hail!”
       It got so bad that Gary had to kill the intercom altogether.
       “You see?” said Dad.
       “Oh, stop it,” said Mum. “He’s trying his best.”
       “I told him,” said Dad. “I did. You heard me. Don’t come
crying to me when it all falls apart.”
       “I’m doing my best, ok?” said Gary,
       “He’s trying his best,” said Mum. “Leave him alone, dad. It’s
not his fault that people are the way they are.”
       “If they’d just go on the rides,” said Gary.
       And that was the problem. Nobody was going on any of
the rides. There were lines, yes, but at the front of each one were
robed men, whipping the people lining up before them – with long
wooden sticks, and their frightening and judging words.
       “The Architect is faithful! He will not let you be tempted
beyond what you can bear,” said one robbed man.
       “Watch and pray that you should not fall into temptation,”
said the other. “The spirit is willing. But the ﬂesh is weak!”
       They blocked the entrance to every ride with giant walls

                                94
incapable of passing. And on the walls, they painted stars and
crosses and crescent moons. And those at the front of the line
were permitted to touch the wall with their hands; to rest their
heads against it and wail, like a child abandoned in a crib to de-
cry their suffering. And when they were done, they would kiss the
ground with which the men in robes stood and hand over their
young sons whom, in dark and secretive lines, were made to kneel
and be beholden before men in robes who lavished them with im-
proper love and abuse.
       Outside the administration building, a pulpit had been set
up; several of them, actually. And on every pulpit stood a man in
robes preaching about love and reverence one minute, and about
ﬁre and brimstone the next. Those watching and listening went
from joyful and merry to a bucket of fear and nerves the next –
scared to death that they were going to burn in hell if they ever
worshipped at a different pulpit or were tempted into a different
line. Worse then, were they to actually go on a single ride.
       “Hail, The Architect,” the men in robes decried.
       “Hail! Hail! Hail!” shouted the people in return.
       “Thank you, dear Architect, for the world you have created.
We promise to be true only to you. We promise not to be tempted
into evil. We promise to never be swept up by emotions. We prom-
ise to never make bed with desire. We promise to you, oh Architect,
the all-seeing, the all-knowing; we promise to never ride a ride.”
       All around the park, in front of pulpits and lined up in front
of every ride, people fell to their knees and kissed the ground be-
neath them. And though their faiths were different, though their
architects were different, their reverences and fears were entirely
the same.
       “We promise to not be tempted. We promise to never ever
ride a single ride.”
       “This is not what I intended,” said Gary, desperate. “What
the hell is wrong with these people? It’s a damn amusement park.
Just go on the damn rides. Have some damn fun. It’s the whole
point of this place.”
       It was no good, though. He was shouting at himself.

                                 95
       “Hail to The Architect,” said the men in robes. “Hail.”
       Then they started their war, the ﬁrst of many. The whole
park erupted in violence and stampedes. And it was the children
who suffered the most.
       “Death to the inﬁdel,” cried every man in robes. “Worshiper
of false Architects.”
       “Why won’t they just go on the slide?” said Gary.
       It was the biggest slide in the world. It could race ﬁfty people
at the same time. Instead, it was being used as a temple for one
group. It was their place of worship. And it burned to the ground
quickly as another group set upon it with sticks and stones, and ar-
rows made of ﬁre.
       And it wasn’t just the slippery slide either. Dozens of rides
were being burned to the ground, and the lines annexed and
claimed by other, more capable, better-funded, and better-armed
groups. There were rocks being thrown by one side and missiles
being thrown by the other.
       “I mean, I hate to say I told you so,” said Dad.
       He was basically doing it, though.
       “Well, I wouldn’t have been able to do what Gary did. I think
it’s amazing, I do. Building a whole bemusement park by yourself.”
       “Amusement park,” said Gary.
       “What did I say?”
       “Bemusement.”
       “Oh, did I?”
       “You should have built a tire store,” said Dad. “People al-
ways need tires.”
       “Oh, Dad, stop it,” said Mum.
       “I’m just saying, is all.”
       “It’s ﬁne, mum,” said Gary. “It’s ﬁne. I’ll just go down there
and sort it out.”
       “I’d leave it well enough alone, son,” said Dad.
       “It’s alright, Dad. I know what I’m doing.”
       And so, Gary headed down the stairs of the administra-
tion building but the exit door had been blocked. The handle to
the door, too, had been broken off. Worse still, the smoke from

                                 96
outside, from all the burning pulpits, was ﬂooding into the build-
ing. It only took minutes for the whole building to be wrapped in a
blanket of black smoke.
        Gary rushed up the stairs. Mum and Dad were already on the
ground, as low as they could. It was no help, though. The smoke
was thick and heavy.
        “Come here, son,” said Dad.
        Gary sat with his parents. All three were holding hands and
their breaths.
        “We love you,” said Mum and Dad.
        “I love you too,” said Gary. “I’m so sorry.”
        “It’s not your fault, son,” said Mum.
        “I tried,” he said. “I really did. It’s just…”
        “People are arseholes,” said Dad. “That’s all. People are ar-
seholes.”




                                 97
98
“A hero walks among us,” or so says, clinical psychologist, Ana
Clara de Suécia. “There are only three archetypes in which one can
build their identity and sense of self around. These are, in the case
of the super-ego, the hero or the villain – both being the protago-
nist of any great trauma and the doers of the action; and then there
is the victim – the object of an unjust and unfair world. And the
trauma itself becomes the monolith of which not only justiﬁes the
ego, but that is a mirror in which the ego can reﬂect.”
        And the trauma, in this case, refers to the discovery six
months ago of a deceased middle-aged male, known only as Bruce,
tied to a chair, and dressed in women’s clothing, in an abandoned
meat packing warehouse.
        It was a case that not only shocked and disturbed the nation
but one that amassed a cult-like following of intrigue and wonder.
What was at ﬁrst investigated as a hate crime, the senseless mur-
der of a homosexual man, soon became the plot of something far
stranger – a schizophrenic, cross-dressing exhibitionist who, in the
eclipse of a psychotic episode, was both the victim and perpetrator
of his own death. So, who was Bruce? Was his death a murder or
a suicide? Why has he captured our attention? And what does he
have to say about us?
        “What makes Bruce special is that he is no different to any
one of us,” says Ana Clara. “The sense of self, and reality especial-
ly, is entirely a delusion, but it is a delusion we all share. And though
it is a ﬁgment merely of our imagination, it is absolutely real.”
        When he was found by detectives, Bruce’s body was badly
decomposed. His time of death was put at weeks or even months
before his body was found. There had been, though, no reports
of a missing person from family, friends, or acquaintances of any
kind.
        “He was a John Doe when we found him.”
        Senior Detective Gus Livingstone was one of the ﬁrst on
the scene.
        “He was as dead as can be, slumped in a wooden chair, his
hands sort of tied loosely around his back – as if he’d either broken
free or done it himself. And he was dressed in a blonde wig and

                                   99
an evening gown. Pretty expensive looking gown. Makeup too. He
was all done up.”
       It took detectives weeks to discover his identity, or at least,
who Bruce believed he was.
       “If it weren’t for all the videos he had made and his mani-
festos, we’d have no idea who he was at all. In truth, we still don’t.
Who Bruce was in the real world we have no idea. We don’t even
know if his real name was Bruce. He has no family whatsoever, and
there are no records – ﬁngerprints or dental – that give us a hint as
to who he was. All we know about Bruce is from what he told us –
what he left behind.”
        And that was quite a bit. In the time he had been squatting
in the abandoned warehouse, Bruce had accumulated an expansive
archive of videos, paintings, poetry, and writings.
       “Most of it was whacky. He’d made up this fantasy world for
himself and even painted the warehouse walls to kind of act it out.
Everywhere you looked were the words, ‘Wayne Industries’. Pre-
tended he was some kind of billionaire CEO. As far as we can tell,
he didn’t have a penny to his name. And in different colour paint
were symbols of bats and the joker playing card. He’d be dressing
up in different costumes too, pretending he was a super-hero one
minute, called himself The Batman; then a super-villain the next,
The Joker or something like that. And then he’d be in tuxedos and
ball gowns – the guy was a nutcase,” says the detective.
       Ana Clara disagrees.
       “Bruce, as we know him, wasn’t just Bruce. He was The Bat-
man, The Joker, and Bridgette. He was the hero, the villain, and the
victim. And he was also the observer, he was us. He watched every-
thing he recorded – we know that now - so he was also the helpless
observer watching this grand spectacle happen before him.”
       There were hundreds of hours of video footage. In some,
Bruce was dressed in black spandex, his face covered in a black
mask, and courting a long black cape. He called himself The Bat-
man, and he swore to rid Gotham, the city in which Bruce lived in-
side his head, of the fear and crime which had cast an indomitable
shadow over it. In others, he was The Joker, the larger-than-life

                                 100
villain who promised to untether Gotham from the binds of civil-
ity and sanity, and instead liberate the people, through violence and
destruction, from their needless servitude to fear and oppression.
And, as the man in the dress, he was Bridgette, the fair maiden of
both The Batman and The Joker.
       So, was Bruce mad?
       “Mad or crazy are very broad and loose terms. If we were,
not only to know what Bruce was thinking and how he felt, but
were we to share these thoughts and feelings just as we do when
we take the narrative from the evening news, it would not be Bruce
who is mad, but instead the world itself. To simply call Bruce crazy
does little except to serve the idea that he is the villain because he
thought one way, and we are the heroes because collectively we
think another. When a painting is sold for hundreds of millions
of dollars, there are those who see its subjective value and there
are those who don’t. Both are mad respectively, and both paint the
other as villains, in their opulence and in their ignorance.”
       So, if Bruce is mad then we are all mad?
       “Exactly,” says Ana Clara. “And that’s what both scares us
and intrigues us about Bruce. Here was a man who shut himself
off and invented, in marvellous detail mind you, a world as real as
yours or mine, one that existed entirely in his thoughts.”
       Ana Clara is quick, though, to point out that this idea alone,
a world made up in his thoughts, is not as mad as one would think,
and more common than one would care to believe.
       “What you or I perceive of the world, the world we both
agree is true, exists almost exclusively in our heads. Reality is a
thought we agree on, that is it. All the wars, diseases, famines, sci-
entiﬁc discoveries, economic disparities, and social indifferences
exist only in my head. They aren’t real. They are just data. They are
just an idea. And I build an idea of what the world is and my sense
of self on how I feel about them. But I don’t need to step foot in
Gaza to believe that it is real and then, in my head, involve myself
in a moral argument over a conﬂict that, objectively, has no bearing
on my life.”
       And what a world he created. From his incredible video

                                 101
archive, Bruce brought the world inside his head into our avid
imagination. He made his world, with all its heroes and villains and
victims, as real as our own.
        There was The Batman, of course, a roguish anti-hero, driv-
en by redemption of sorts, the vengeance that spawned from hav-
ing been unable to save his mother and father. Whereas Bruce was
the reserved, and maybe even craven, billionaire CEO to Wayne
Industries, an empire he inherited from his father, The Batman was
the antithesis to this impressionable and mute, silver-spooned heir.
He was the iron ﬁst to Bruce’s yellow belly.
        And then, of course, there was The Joker, a reviling ﬁgure
capable of all kinds of no-good. He was as enigmatic and charm-
ing as he was deranged and unpredictable, a visionary genius with
the wit, will, and vernacular of a literary master, mixed with the
destructive petulance of a two-year-old child.
        And ﬁnally, there was Bridgette, the object of Bruce’s love
and affections, someone with whom he hoped would one day, not
only share his great fortune but with whom he would ﬁnally have
a family. She was kind. She was pretty. She was smart. None of
them, though, she ever ﬂaunted, for she was elegant, graceful, and
modest.
        The man in the dress, or Bruce as we have come to know
him, was all three of these protagonists. Not only in his mind, ei-
ther. He acted out their drama on the stage that was Gotham City,
the abandoned warehouse in which he had made his home in his
last days.
        Who was the man in the dress, though? Who was he before
his breakdown? Who was he before this great drama unfolded?
The Batman, The Joker, Bridgette – even Aunt Regina; were any
of those people real? Were any of them him?
        “The world is a mirror,” says Ana Clara. “And the mind is
constantly looking for its own reﬂection. On average, each person
wears a dozen masks throughout their life at any given time. There
is their work self, their relationship self, their tribal self, their fam-
ily self, , and, generally in moments of existential crises, trying to
understand who their self-self is. The self they are when they are

                                  102
alone and there is nothing to prove. It’s like the house of mirrors.
When you look in one mirror you see yourself fat and distorted
and you feel disgusted. You say, ‘I am fat. I’m ugly. I am disgusting’.
Then in another mirror, you see yourself intrepid and brawn, and
you say, ‘I am strong. I am handsome.’ In truth, you are none of
these and in truth, you are them all. And, in every facet of your life,
you see yourself as either brave and courageous – the hero, or weak
and ineffectual - the victim. You’re either looking for applause or a
consoling hug. Bruce was no different.”
        But he was, though. This was undeniable. And maybe this is
why, as a society, we are so drawn to his story. You see, outside of
his psychotic delusion, Bruce has no story. All we know of him is
the story he left for us. So, let’s start there.
        Bruce Wayne was a billionaire socialite. He was the orphan
and heir of Wayne Industries, a multinational whose portfolio in-
cluded everything from pharmaceuticals and weapons manufac-
turing to children’s entertainment and coffee production. Having
witnessed his mother and father being fatally shot during a botched
robbery when he was seven, Bruce went on to be raised by his aunt
who, by his own admission, was as scary and mean as she was el-
egant and pretty.
        “Whether or not there ever was an Aunt Regina is anyone’s
guess. But for the sake of who Bruce was in the days before he
died, and when he compiled the majority of his manifesto, it is en-
tirely irrelevant. Because for Bruce, she was real enough to invent
Bridgette and be the reason he wore that dress.”
        Bridgette, as Ana Clara puts it, represented the childlike and
innocent part of Bruce that needed saving, whilst Aunt Regina
symbolised his feelings of fear, shame, and disgust, and was some-
one that needed to be burned alive.
        “The Batman wanted to save her. Bridgette, that is. He saw
her as the damsel in distress. If he saved her, then this conﬂict that
played out in Bruce’s mind would come to an end. If he saved her,
he would in turn save himself. The Joker, though, when Bruce saw
himself as the villain, saw the man in the dress as the reason for all
of his trauma. He believed if he killed Bridgette, then Bruce would

                                 103
be free, and their trauma would end.”
        Reading his diaries and manifesto, Bruce goes into detail
about how, growing up, Aunt Regina would whip him and burn
him with cigarette butts and force him to stand naked in his bed-
room, for hours on end, as she held cocktail parties and gala events.
        “If seeing his mother and father being shot was the trauma
that gave rise to The Batman, this noble caped crusader, then the
verbal and sexual abuse inﬂicted upon him by Aunt Regina, not
only explains but almost justiﬁes The Joker persona – a human
hyperbole – the rotten fruit that grew out of the fetid and fecund
soil with which the seed of his shame had been sown.”
        The Bridgette persona, she says, was born out of deﬁance
in his youth, a way to stand up to, and even mock, the oppression
he had felt from his Aunt Regina as a boy. The persona might have
been crass and satirical at ﬁrst, it may have even been sexual, but
over time, Bridgette came to represent the tenderness in Bruce
that had been repressed and tucked away, so as not to get soiled by
the great difﬁculty he had had to constantly endure. Bridgette was
the ﬂower that grew upon the landﬁll that was his unfortunate life.
And as for Aunt Regina, well she was the stinking refuse.
        “Bruce would dress as Aunt Regina and march around the
warehouse with a pretend cigarette in one hand and the other,
arched to her hip like a teapot. And as she marched back and forth,
she’d be insulting young Bruce with derogatory and homopho-
bic remarks. She’d call him her little queer bastard and blame him
for the death of his parents and for ruining her life. But then as
Bridgette, Bruce would be delicate and softly spoken, very quaint
and effeminate. And the persona of Bridgette represented the part
of him that felt alone, lost, and scared. They were quite polarizing
ﬁgures.”
        Ana Clara is quick to state that there is no real hero or villain.
        “The hero is the villain. Both are driven by what they see as
a moral good. In scripture, The Devil sees God as a cruel and ma-
niacal dictator, enslaving humanity to his capricious and vengeful
will, liberating humanity from its needless suffering through free
will, individuality, and art. In this case, The Joker is no different.

                                  104
        He sees the society in which Bruce lives, this city called Go-
tham, as being administered to belittle and enslave its people. And
he sees, by killing Bridgette, that he will liberate Bruce from his
needless suffering – to tear off that mask – and to be free to be his
own person. Thus, The Joker sees himself as much the hero as The
Batman. Both are looking to rescue Bruce.”
        So, what happened to The Batman? What happened to The
Joker? What happened to Bridgette and Aunt Regina? And more
importantly, what happened to Bruce?
        When found by detectives, Bruce was not Bruce. He was
Bridgette. He was dressed in an extravagant gown, loosely tied to
a chair, with his face made up like a Disney princess. So, what hap-
pened that night?
        “What we do know,” says Ana Clara, “from the videos and
manifesto is that, in the days leading up to his death, there had been
an escalation in threats of violence by The Joker. There were about
twenty videos recorded on one day alone, where Bruce was dressed
as The Batman and The Joker, threatening to destroy Gotham one
minute, and promising to save it the next. Then there were videos
of Bridgette at, what we assume must have been a gala ball because
she was dancing gracefully around the warehouse.”
        That video itself was the last, an eerie and almost silent thir-
ty-eight-minute dance recital; almost silent except for the sound
of Bruce’s bare feet as he shufﬂed around the warehouse in an
extravagant evening gown.
        What happened to her, though, how she ended up tied to
that chair, and how she died, remain a mystery. And it’s the not
knowing that causes as much wonder as the story of Bruce Wayne
itself.
        “In the end, Bridgette died,” says Ana Clara. “That much we
know. The rest, like Bruce, is for us to imagine.”
        And imagine we do. The cult following that Bruce has gar-
nered since his death only continues to grow. There are talks of
his story being turned into an entire comic book series, while this
year, for Halloween, children dressed up as The Batman and The
Joker. And in a more deﬁning moment, Bridgette was given a

                                  105
posthumous honour of woman of the year.
       “Batman is a symbol of hope and strength,” says Michael
Stratton, a thirty-year-old economist. “Bruce taught us that we
don’t need to feel helpless anymore. We don’t need to feel scared
and alone in this crazy world. There’s a hero inside each and every
one of us. The Batman is inside all of us. We’re all The Batman.
We’re all heroes.”
       And so, who was the man in the dress? Was she Aunt Re-
gina? Or was she Bridgette? And was Bruce ﬁnally free?
       “He was Bridgette,” says Ana Clara. “He was Aunt Regina.
He was The Batman. He was Bruce. He was The Joker. He was
you.




                               106
107
Once upon a time, there was a sisterhood of best friends – a sis-
terhood that had been forged almost forty years ago when all four
ladies were still in diapers. It was a sisterhood that had withstood,
not only the fury of adolescence but also the test of time. It was a
sisterhood that today, now that all four women were in their mid-
forties, was as strong, if not stronger, than it had been all those
years before.
       It was the Sisterhood of Awesomeness.
       “It’s the only way to get Vitamin D,” said Linda.
       They were out on Stephanie’s veranda, lying on a set of ex-
clusive Gucci beach towels, made, not just from the fur, but from
the hopes and dreams of baby pandas too. All four were on their
backs with their legs spread wide and their knees pulled back to
their ears, pushing their anuses as close as they could to the bright
afternoon sun.
         “When the UV rays are absorbed through the anus, the
body gets 100% of the Vitamin D and your cells start triplicat-
ing, almost instantly. Perennial Sunning is the only way. Otherwise,
you’re getting like 2-3%. Pretty much 100% of people are Vitamin
D deﬁcit.”
       “I think I can feel it,” said Stephanie. “It tingles.”
       “That’s it. That’s when you know it’s working.”
       The tingling, in truth, was from an STD her husband had
picked up from a Thai masseuse only two weeks prior, but it would
be years before that truth came to the surface, unlike the STD.
       “The anus is the doorway to the soul,” said Stephanie. “It’s
understudied and totally misunderstood.”
       By now, all four ladies looked badly sunburned.
       “I put everything in my anus,” said Stephanie.
       It was the ﬁrst time any of the other ladies had tried anything
like this. Neither of them quite knew if they were doing it right, but
they sure were happy to be a part of a movement, an intellectual
movement, in better health, better living, and better being.
       “Avocados, for instance,” said Stephanie. “How do you eat
them?”
       “Who, me?” asked Debora.

                                 108
       “I bet you use your mouth, right?”
       She sounded so sure; were it anyone else they would have
sounded smug.
       “Well, yeah….”
       Debora, on the other hand, did not.
       “…What do you do?”
       “Anus,” said Stephanie.
       “Anus!” said the other ladies shocked.
       “How much? The whole thing?”
       “Yep.”
       “But how?” asked Debora. “I mean. Doesn’t it hurt? The
ones we get are huge. I can barely ﬁt them in the fridge drawer.”
       “Puree,” said Stephanie, sagaciously. “We puree everything:
avocados, sweet potatoes, pork ribs. I have Derick doing it too. He
swears by it. We put everything in our anuses.”
       “Is it safe?”
       “Totally. Safer than your mouth. Do you know how many
germs are on your tongue alone? The anus is far cleaner. We
watched it in a Ted Talk. It explained everything.”
       “Wow,” said the other ladies. “Must be true.”
       “When you eat through your mouth, your liver gets rid of
everything. Through the anus, though, 100% of the vitamins and
minerals get absorbed by the body. It does wonders for your gut
bacteria too.”
       “Ooohhh,” said the other ladies.
       For they were all well versed on gut ﬂora.
       “Scientists also say it makes your telomeres grow.”
       “Tele……?”
       “…Meres. Telomeres. They’re like this thing in your cells and
if they get too short you can die. And this way of eating, and the
sunning too, they help to make your Telomeres get longer. You
know, scientists talk about death now as a disease, not something
natural.”
       “I heard that,” said Linda. “I think I heard it on a podcast.”
       The ladies all listened to podcasts. Everyone was doing it.
The trick, though, was knowing which podcast was the important

                                109
one, and which bits everyone had listened to.
       “Listen to me going on,” said Stephanie. “I’m such a nerd.”
       In truth, she wasn’t, but it was the height of fashion to pre-
tend to be. It was still very uncool to actually be book smart, but
just as her Ramones shirt gave her swagger, so too did her Nasa
shirt acquire her credibility.
       “I can’t believe the whole gang is ﬁnally back together,” said
Linda.
       “O.M.G,” said Stephanie, “this is gonna be so amazing.”
       It had been years since they had all been together in the one
place. Whether it was family or work, or spiritual wellness retreats,
there was always one thing or the other that was always getting
in the way. Tonight, though, was different. Tonight, was all about
them. Finally, The Sisterhood of Awesomeness was back together
again.
       “First rule. No children!”
       The women all erupted in cheer. Tonight, was a night off
from being a mother. It was a night off from knowing where the
shoes and socks were. It was a night off from making snacks and
curing boredom. It was a night off from brushing teeth, wiping
bums, and brushing knots out of hair. It was a night off from com-
plaining. It was a night off from the ﬁghting. It was a night off
from picking up gargantuan messes from the ﬂoor. It was a night
off from it all.
       “Oh, Eunice,” said Stephanie.
       Eunice was Stephanie’s nanny, cook, and cleaner. And while
Stephanie was busy sunning her anus, Eunice was at her wit’s end
trying to wrangle up a couple of rambunctious kids to brush their
teeth, wipe their bums, and brush the knots out of their hair. What,
with all the ﬁghting and complaining, she could barely hear a thing.
       “Eunice!” shouted Stephanie, her voice mean and coarse.
       This time she heard. And in a second she out on the veranda
apologising.
       “I’m sorry, mam,” she said, looking only at the ﬂoor. “I didn’t
think that…”
       “Your job is not to think, Eunice. You don’t think. That’s

                                 110
why you do this job.”
        “Yes, mam,” said Eunice, obediently.
        “Where are the children?” said Stephanie.
        “One second, mam.”
        Eunice raced back to where the children were but in the min-
ute she had been gone, they had already dirtied their teeth, frizzed
up their hair, and made a godawful mess on the ﬂoor. Not to men-
tion the state of their pyjamas. Eunice wanted to scream. She want-
ed to shout bloody murder to the heavens. She wanted to roar like
a lion. Instead, she merely remarked to herself:
        “Life is a blessing, and its burdens are no more than I can
bear.”
        Then she changed their pyjamas, brushed their teeth, un-
tangled their hair, cleaned up the ﬂoor, and with nary a second to
spare before Stephanie once more screamed out her name, Eunice
arrived with both children looking all spick and span – a couple of
darlings and angels.
        “I didn’t ask you to bring them here,” said Stephanie, irately.
“This is my night off.”
        “You tell her,” said Linda.
        “It’s our night off!” shouted the other ladies. “No kids! No
kids! No kids!”
        “I’m sorry, mam,” said Eunice, taking the children away.
        “Always apologising, you are, Eunice. Try following an order
for once and you might make fewer mistakes.”
        “Yes, mam. You’re right, mam. I’m sorry, mam.”
        Stephanie could be mean, but no more than any other mam
or sir. And she had a point, too. Time was precious and it couldn’t
be wasted on ﬁxing mistakes or having to explain the same thing
a hundred times over. Eunice never blamed her, though. After all,
it was her who made the mistakes and not Stephanie. If she paid
more attention then maybe she wouldn’t be always getting correct-
ed.
        “It is not easy to get good help,” said Stephanie.
        “I know,” said the other sisters consolingly.
        “She gets paid a good wage. Beneﬁts too. All of them. If she

                                 111
knew what some of the other maids were getting…”
       “Once upon a time, she would have been working for noth-
ing.”
       “I know. It’s like they don’t know how lucky they have it.”
       “Well, that’s the problem of giving more. They get adjust-
ed. And it’s no secret that they’re terrible with their money. So,
the more money you give them, the more problems they make for
themselves. And then they just want more.”
       “It’s a cycle.”
       “It is.”
       “Oh, speaking of a cycle,” said Linda, opening her purse.
“Who wants to get fucked up?”
       The sisters all squealed.
       “Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god,” shouted Stephanie.
       Linda had two bags full of white and brown powder in her
hands.
       “I haven’t had heroin in so long,” said Stephanie. “Tonight,
is gonna be so good.”
       “Try awesome,” said Linda, correcting.
       “Sisterhood of Awesomeness!” shouted all the ladies at once.
       An hour later, they were snorting lines of cocaine and hero-
in, and singing and dancing to the greatest song in the whole world.
       “Girls just wanna have fu-un! Woah, girls just wanna have
fun!”
        They made a terrible mess, but it was nothing that Eunice
couldn’t clean up before she went home. It was, after all, their night
off. Somebody else could do the ordering. Somebody else could do
the worrying. This was their time; their time to have fun.
       “I know just where we’re going,” said Linda. “The hippest
club in town. Very, very exclusive. A who-you-know kind of place.”
       “Sounds exciting,” said Brittney. “What’s it called?”
       “You’ll never guess,” said Linda.
       “Just tell us before my head explodes. It’s not Mace, is it? I’ve
heard that place is…”
       “Hashtag,” said Linda.
       “Oh. My. God.”

                                  112
       None of the ladies could believe it. It wasn’t just the hip-
pest club in town; it was THE club. It was impossible to get into
Hashtag. You didn’t just have to know someone; you had to be
someone who knew someone. And even they had to be more fa-
mous than the most famous person you knew.
       “Isn’t that, like, invitation only?”
       Linda’s smile was mischievous.
       “Did you get tickets?”
       “It’s a password entry,” said Linda. “It changes all the time. I
know someone who knows someone who knows someone who let
me buy a password for ﬁfty K.”
       “Wow.”
       “You’re serious?”
       “Deadly.”
       “We’re going to Hashtag?”
       “We are,” said Linda.
       “So, let’s get this party started!”
       The ladies all hollered and cheered.
       “Girls just wanna have fu-un! Woah girls just wanna have
fun!”
       They all felt young and invincible. Time felt inﬁnite. It was
like being nineteen again. The night was only young, and it felt like
it would never end. Quite quickly, though, the heroin and cocaine
did.
       “Boooo.”
       The ladies were none too impressed.
       “It’s ok,” said Linda. “I’ve got some molly lined up at the
club.”
       “Woohoo!”
       And just like that, the ladies were ecstatic again. They were
over the moon.
       “Girls just wanna have fu-un. Woah, girls just wanna have
fun.”
       Eventually, it was time to leave. The living room was in a ter-
rible state, but Eunice was already on her knees scrubbing the dried
powder off the table and spilt vodka and wine from the carpet.

                                 113
        “Life is a blessing,” she said to herself. “And its burdens are
no more than I can bear.”
         The Sisterhood of Awesomeness gathered their belongings
and stumbled out of the apartment, knocking over a dozen vases
as they did. It was all quite hysterical really.
        “Clean this up before you go,” shouted Stephanie. “Your sal-
ary is on the table.”
        Then they were off.
        Eunice did as her employer had asked. She briskly swept and
picked up any broken pieces that were scattered on the ﬂoor. Then,
before she left, she quickly checked in on the children who were
sound asleep in their beds. Then she took the money from the
table. It had heroin all over it.
        Outside it was raining.
        “I’ll drive,” said Linda.
        “Are you sure? We can just get a taxi.”
        “No. It’s cool. I’ve got this. I’m perfectly ﬁne to drive.”
        They were in the car for maybe twenty minutes before any
of them realised that the engine wasn’t even on. By that time, they
were having seventeen different conversations, all at the same time,
about all the most pressing matters in science, religion, and politics.
        “We should be saving the otters,” said Brittney. “Did you
know that……?”
        When they were kids, The Sisters of Awesomeness knew the
lyrics to every new pop song, even before they were released. They
were part of every club and street team, and they had all the post-
ers and stickers of anyone at all that had ever played on Top of the
Pops. They weren’t just living a dream; they were living on a prayer.
        Then, when they were teenagers, it was ﬂannel jackets and
feigned apathy. And just like when they were kids, they too were a
part of every club and street team, though, this time, they didn’t
just declare that pop was dead, they were putting the nail in every
darn cofﬁn.
        Now, though – now that they were grown – there was no
more music; instead, ideology was pop. And just like when they
were kids, The Sisters of Awesomeness knew the lyrics to every

                                 114
new idea, long before they even went viral; and they sang them all
as loud and deﬁant as they had, the words to every Michael Bolton
and Nickelback song they knew.
       “We need to do something about the Amazon,” said Stepha-
nie.
       “I know,” said Jane, nodding vigorously. “What?”
       “It’s on ﬁre.”
       “Someone needs to put that out.”
       “But it’s all political.”
       “To hell with politicians. They’re all corrupt anyway.”
       “Because in Asia they eat them.”
       “Politicians?”
       “Otters.”
       “What do you think about trans gynaecologists?”
       It wasn’t just raining outside, it was pouring. The sidewalks
were like rivers. Undeterred, Eunice braced herself and walked
headﬁrst into the wailing gusts of wind and rain.
       “Life is a blessing,” she said to herself, as the wind blew her
back down the street. “And its burdens are no more than I can
bear.”
       There was some respite when she arrived at her bus stop,
taking shelter beneath the giant metal awning. She sat there in the
freezing cold imagining the warm cup of cocoa she would have
when she got home and the ﬂuffy old slippers she would wear
when she cosied up in front of the TV watching her favourite soap
opera.
       The ladies, on the other hand, ﬁnally got the car moving.
       “Hurry up and drive already!”
       It was getting late, and they had already spent a good twenty
minutes arguing over the emergence of the state of Israel. If they
didn’t arrive soon, they’d never get in.
       “Do any of you meditate?” asked Brittney.
       Linda drove fast and erratic. She didn’t have time to waste on
things like signalling and giving way. There was fun to be had, and
they’d never have it unless they got to the club as soon as possible.
And so, in the spirit of things, Linda turned the radio up as loud

                                 115
as it would go.
        “Girls just wanna have fu-un! Oh, girls just wanna have….”
        “They just wanna! They just wanna!”
        “When the working day is done…..”
        Linda swerved the car right into a puddle splashing water all
over the sidewalk. The ladies all laughed hysterically and cheered
for more. It was hilarious, watching the wave of water drench the
poor and homeless people who had no idea it was coming. They
were easily having the best time of their lives.
        Eunice, though, was drenched.
        “Life is a blessing,” she said to herself, wiping the brown
murky water from her face. “And its burdens are no more than I
can bear.”
        Not wanting to be splashed by another car, Eunice backed
away from the curb where she had been standing and started walk-
ing up the sidewalk. It would be a while until the bus passed so it
would serve her better to just walk to the next stop. At the very
least, it would keep her busy and warm.
        Her feet, though, were wet and sore, so she stepped into a
convenience store to shake out the water and let herself dry a little.
It was warm inside. It was a small store, only the clerk, a couple of
customers, and a policeman with a beautiful little beagle.
        “Good evening,” she said, nervously.
        She looked nervous too, half expecting the clerk to throw
her out.
        “That’s a lot of rain.”
        The clerk nodded.
        The policeman nodded.
        His beagle, though, walked up beside Eunice and sat down.
        “Mam, do you have any drugs on your person?”
        Shocked, Eunice moved backwards.
        “Drugs? Me? No, sir. I’m a good Christian. I’m a Baptist. I
don’t even drink.”
        The beagle, though, moved beside her and again, it sat down.
        “Mam, I’m gonna have to see inside your handbag.”
        The police ofﬁcer went through Eunice’s handbag and found

                                 116
nothing. He smiled at her, and she smiled back. Hers, though, was
nervous. It was an odd-looking smile. It was awkward and weird.
It was suspicious. And why wouldn’t it be? What right did a black
woman have to feel safe and assured in the presence of a police of-
ﬁcer; even if she didn’t do anything wrong – especially if she didn’t
do anything wrong.
       “Mam, is this your money?”
       The policeman had taken her salary from her purse.
       “That’s my salary,” said Eunice. “I didn’t steal it. Miss Steph-
anie paid that to me, she did.”
       The policeman scratched some of the white and brown
powder off the note.
       “Mam, if you have any drugs on your person, it’s best to tell
me now before I call in for a cavity search.”
       “Girls! Wanna!”
       “Wanna have fun! Girls!”
       The ladies arrived at the club singing and screaming with
delight. Their car was scratched and dented from the things they
had bumped into and knocked over along the way, but that wasn’t
going to dampen their spirits. This was their night out. No kids.
No husbands. No problems. Just four best friends. The Sisterhood
of Awesomeness. And Hashtag - the most exclusive club in town.
       “Password!”
       The bouncer’s eyes were only barely visible through the door.
       “You ready, girls?” said Linda. “Everyone at the same time.”
       They were the Sisterhood of Awesomeness.
       “Black Lives Matter!” they shouted.




                                 117
118
Once upon a time, there was a boy called Francis, a boy who would
one day grow up to become the last man on Earth; a boy who
would, as such, inherit the most unfortunate of circumstances - the
curse of never being able to die.
        An odd predicament indeed, but for dear Francis, it was a
thread that unravelled so gingerly that, by the time he had even
the tiniest inkling of what was going on, it was too late; the entire
fabric of humanity had come spectacularly undone.
        And it all started when he was four.
        That was when Francis watched his kindergarten teacher,
Miss Soﬁa, choke to death on a handful of Skittles. It was just after
storytime and all of the other children were asleep on their magic
blankies. Francis had gotten up to use the potty, and in what could
only be described as a moment of bad fortune, not only did Miss
Soﬁa meet her demise, but poor sweet Francis was there to watch
her turn red and then purple and then blue – all the colours of his
favourite Skittles.
        “That poor boy,” said one half of the town.
        “What a frightful thing to see,” said the other.
        “He had an unfortunate case of very bad luck,” they all
agreed.
         It was a terrible thing to have witnessed, especially for a boy
of such young age. As tragic as it was, though, it wouldn’t be the
last time that Francis watched somebody biting off more than they
could chew.
        There was Mrs Pinkerton, she choked on a dozen croissants
and a tall glass of chocolate milk. The mix of dairy and pastry, they
said, made a sludge that hardened like concrete in her throat. Then
there was Father O’Leary. He choked on a single piece of holy
bread; caught unawares he was, one Sunday afternoon. And in a
moment of unexpected fright, the bread he had hoped to place on
his own tongue, was instead inhaled, and landed, like a Tupperware
lid, neatly at the back of his throat. So neat was it that the more Fa-
ther O’Leary fought to breathe, the more perfectly sealed the piece
of holy bread became. And then there was Mr Cargill. He was the
loudest man in town. His voice sure could carry. His was the ﬁrst

                                  119
and last word in every discussion He was loud, and he was al-
ways right. One day, though, much to his surprise, he was wrong.
Shocked, embarrassed, and incredulous, Mr Cargill choked on his
words.
        And whenever any of them died, poor sweet Francis was
there to see it happen.
        “The boy has terrible luck,” said one half of the town.
        “This town is cursed,” said the other.
        And it was true. A strange and unusual amount of deaths
had occurred in this small town in such a short time, and in all of
them, Francis was there to see. So many deaths, and so often, that,
by the time he was seven, Francis had witnessed over ten dozen
murders, twice as many suicides, and an unfathomable number of
deaths, most of them at the hands of misadventure, which, for
grown-ups, was just as fancy way to say that people died on acci-
dent because they were doing hapless, careless, and idiotic things.
        “The boy is unlucky,” said one half of town.
        “The boy is cursed,” said the other.
        In truth, they were both right. You see, anytime there was a
single death at all, young Francis was always there to witness it – by
chance, of course. Be they the elderly, the recently born, or every-
one else in-between, the one common thread in all of their deaths
was Francis. And they did their best, the whole town that is, to keep
clear of young Francis and his evil eye.
        “Just one glance from the boy and you’ll be dead,” said one
half of town.
        “Where he looks, death follows,” said the other.
        At ﬁrst, they prohibited him from attending school. Then,
when that did little good, they banned him from having any friends
at all, convinced as they were, that whatever curse he carried could
be passed as easily as a common cold.
        That, though, did little good – for the deaths kept coming.
Then they tried locking him in his room and even blindfolding
his eyes, but as chance would have it, whenever there was another
death - and there was always another death - Francis would be
there. They tried everything but, try as they might, each and every

                                120
one of them would eventually die.
        “They’re in a better place,” his mother would say, each and
every time.
        And eventually, when everyone had died, Francis and his
mother moved to a different town, looking for a fresh start. It
didn’t matter, though, how many towns or cities they moved to, or
how many times they tried to pack up and start again, the same fate
always awaited them.
        “The boy is blighted,” said the folks in one town.
        “He’s damned. He’s doomed. He’s jinxed,” said the folks
from another.
        One by one, sometimes ten thousand at a time, the people in
every town and city that Francis and his mother visited died. And
every time, poor sweet Francis was there to see it happen. So much
so that, by his twelfth birthday, and as terrible as it sounds, Francis
had already seen, ﬁrst-hand mind you, over half a million people
die.
        “Am I unlucky, mother? Am I cursed?”
        “Of course not, my dear. There is no such thing.”
        “Then what of those people who died?”
        “They are in a better place,” is all she would say.
        To soothe himself, Francis would often scribble and doodle
with his markers and pens, drawing all kinds of wonderful pictures
of all the places he and his mother had been. And what, with all the
death about, he would ﬁnd himself doodling quite a bit. So much
so that in no time he became quite the budding artist.
        “We have to have an exhibit one day,” said his mother.
        “I’m too nervous for that,” replied Francis. “What if the
people don’t like it?”
        “Well, that’s no reason to not exhibit your work. How they
feel doesn’t matter. Do you think God cares how people feel? Of
course not. Just as the dilettante stands before and judges the paint-
ing, so too does the artist, peer around the corner, listening to their
praise and criticism, judging them. Neither one understands the
other. God painted this world, and we stand idly and judge it. And
like the artist, so too does God stand idly and judge us, seeing our

                                 121
ecstasy and our agony, our expression, as art. The art, though, is in
the observation. Without it, it’s just a picture.”
        “But I have you,” said Francis. “You look at my pictures. You
love them.”
        “I do,” said his mother. “And I’m very proud of you.”
        She held one of his paintings in her hands, a portrait of her
on a clifftop in Wales, one in which the sun had only barely set so
that it looked as if the petals from a dozen roses had been scattered
across the sky.
        “Mother?” asked Francis.
        “What is it, my son?”
        “Why have I seen so much death in my life?”
        She put down the painting and parted Francis’ fringe from
his eyes.
        “Death,” she said, “much like art, must have an observer.”
        “What does that mean?”
        “You and I, we cannot, and we will not observe our own
deaths. We cannot see that we are dead and so, paradoxically, we
live a kind of inﬁnity. We die without ever knowing we are dead.
But just as art only becomes art when it is observed, so too does
death require an observer. What good is art,” she said, “if there is
no one to review it? What good is a life, then, if there is no-one to
give a eulogy?’”
        “But why me?”
        His mother didn’t answer, though for like the rest of the
world, she too had died.
        Alone, for the ﬁrst time, Francis buried his mother, and like
he had done his entire life, he went looking for another town. He
walked for days and weeks; he walked for months and years on
end. No matter where he went, though, the streets were empty, the
shops were empty, and the houses were empty too. There was no
sign of life anywhere. There were no cats or dogs, no birds or ﬁsh,
no insects of any kind.
         He was the last man on Earth.
        The ﬁrst time he tried to kill himself, Francis, bereft with
loneliness and depression, swallowed a whole shelf full of

                                122
benzodiazepines, and washed them down with a bottle and a half
of Vodka. And when that didn’t work, he inhaled propane for an
entire weekend. At best, he got a mild headache and the runs.
        It was maybe his ﬁftieth attempt at killing himself that Fran-
cis ﬁnally had the courage to hang himself from a tree. It wasn’t
so much the courage as much as it was, frustration at the fact that
none of the nicer and more painless ways of committing suicide
had worked.
        It was no good, though. He hanged from that tree for a week
before eventually, the branch snapped and he fell crashing to the
ﬂoor. Following that he tried jumping off a cliff, exploding himself
with a bag of dynamite, and even cutting off one of his own limbs.
No matter how wounded he got, though, he just couldn’t die.
        “Death, much like art,” he remembered his mother saying.
“Must have an observer.”
        But there was no one alive on Earth to observe him, and
thus he could not die.
        It was unfortunate and there was very little he could do about
it, so instead, he painted. It was all he did. He didn’t eat. He didn’t
drink. He didn’t sleep. He just painted.
        He painted portraits of his mother. He painted all the beauti-
ful places they had been. Then, when he was spent of all his good
emotion, he painted all the death and destruction that he had born
witness to his entire life, all of them ghastly and ghoulish.
        Then, when he had run out of canvas, he painted entire cit-
ies – the houses, the roads, the churches, the schools. In some, he
painted the skyscrapers as yellow as the sun, while the roads he
painted like lush green grass, and the buildings, that from them
sprouted like ﬂowers, he painted all the colours in the rainbow. And
then in others, he painted everything black - as lifeless and vacuous
as the world in which he lived.
        “Hi, I’m Lucy.”
        Francis almost had a heart attack when he heard her speak.
He wasn’t sure which made him happier, seeing another person or
almost dying.
        “Hi,” he said, awkward and nervous. “I’m Francis.”

                                 123
       He had never met a girl before, not since he had grown up
anyway. She was very pretty, and she smiled a lot, sometimes when
nothing funny had even been said. It made Francis smile too. He
had forgotten what that was like, smiling and feeling good for no
reason at all.
       “Did you paint these?”
       She was sifting through the portraits he had done.
       “Is this your mother?”
       “Yes,” said Francis.
       “She was beautiful,” said Lucy. “You’re a wonderful painter.”
       Francis blushed. He didn’t quite know what to say. Nobody
had ever talked about his art before, except of course for his moth-
er, and when she did, he hugged her.
       So that was just what he did.
       Francis wrapped his arms around Lucy and held her as tight
as he could. Then she wrapped her arms around him. They sat
there, in each other arms, for what felt like an eternity. If painting,
when he was young, brought peace and calm into his mind, then
now, as an adult, it was holding and being held by Lucy.
       “Did you paint those cities too?”
       They were sitting on a grassy shore, looking out over an
enormous river. On the other side of that river, there was another
town – the town painted with the big yellow sun and all the pretty
ﬂowers.
       “I did,” said Francis.
       He didn’t quite know how to talk about his art.
       “I love it,” said Lucy. “It’s so pretty. But why do you live here
in a city as black as the night? This city is so dark, so depressing.
Wouldn’t you prefer to live amongst the coloured buildings?”
       “I prefer the dark,” said Francis. “You can see the colours
better.”
       “You’d rather live in the dark?”
       “I’d rather be looking at the sun,” said Francis.
       Lucy smiled.
       “I thought I was the last person on earth,” she said.
       “Me too,” said Francis.

                                  124
       Francis was a bundle of nerves. He had shivers running all
over his body and butterﬂies wreaking havoc in his stomach. On
one hand, he wanted to stab himself in the neck, and on the other,
he wanted to ask her to marry him. He’d never felt this happy. He’d
never felt this scared.
       “I love you,” he said.
       There. He said it. And then Lucy kissed him on the cheek.
       “I love you too,” she said.
       For the ﬁrst time, Francis stopped thinking about and wish-
ing for death. Instead, he longed to live forever, for their love and
passion to burn as bright as a thousand suns, and to live for ten
times as long.
       “Make love to me,” said Lucy.
       Francis’ heart almost stopped then and there. She was the
most beautiful woman he had ever seen in his life. Her naked body
was pale and pert. It bent and curved softly, like a river, from the
tips of her toes, along her slender thighs, around her waist, up onto
her belly, over the round of her breasts, and to the crevice in her
neck that tremored slightly as she anxiously held her breath.
       The two made love beneath the stars, and for the ﬁrst time
in his life, Francis was happy.
       “I fucking love you,” shouted Lucy, moaning.
       Her passion was wild. It was ravenous and rapacious.
       “I love you too,” said Francis in reply.
       “Do you?” she asked.
       “Yes,” cried Francis.
       “Do you really?”
       “Of course!”
       “Prove it,” she said.
       “Ok,” said Francis. “Anything.”
       “Choke me,” said Lucy.




                                125
126
We are gathered here, one and all, on this sombre day, to remember
an extraordinary woman; a woman whose life spanned countless
generations, and as such, warmed an unprecedented amount of
hearts and minds. A woman who, had she lived her life any dif-
ferent – with even a margin less apprehension, heed, and frugality
– then quite surely not a single one of us would be here today. A
woman to whom all of our moral compasses were, are, and shall
forever be, directed north. And a woman who, like the very men-
tion of her name alone, is as loving as mother’s kiss, as unassailable
as a father’s hug, and as generous and welcoming as the morning
sun. Today, we celebrate the life of Prudence Birdwhistle.
        <<< wait for applause to settle>>>
        So, how exactly does one measure a life? Is it in the amount
of mere minutes, hours, and days? Or is it - like the canyons and
gorges, cut from the cloth of patience – simply what one acquires
along the way?
        For Prudence, as we all know, it was both.
        <<smile – sagaciously, yet respectfully>>
         Not only do we mourn today, the passing of our matriarch,
but in rousing fashion, we celebrate the life she lived. For not only
is Prudence an example to us, the Birdwhistlers, but she is more
so an example to the entire world on how to live, not only a life
of moral virtue, but one that deﬁes the very disease that we have
come to accept as a natural occurrence; for hers was a victory in
defeating death.
        For yesterday alone, Prudence celebrated her hundred and
sixty fourth birthday.
        <<smile with applause. Curtesy, even>>
        Firstly, I’d like to touch on time. We are all so proud of our
dear Prudence for the record she set as being the only person to
have ever lived as long as she had; one hundred and sixty-four years
is momentous. Just amazing. And though she wasn’t lucid for the
last half century, we know too well that she greeted every day with
all the zest of butterﬂy upon a bed of open petals. One can only
imagine the kind of wonders she experienced in her record-break-
ing life, from the birth of the dishwasher, to pillow top mattresses,

                                 127
and of course, who can overlook the array of machines and tech-
nology that kept her alive this long.
        Prudence was born in eighteen ﬁfty-seven, the same year as
the ﬁrst passenger elevator which, on its own, is quite poignant
given that it is Prudence’s spirit and legacy which now that carry us
through the burdens and difﬁculties in our lives.
        Our dear Prudence didn’t have stories to tell.
        “Stories are for the reckless,” she would say. “For the wild
and wicked who live in rampant disregard. No respect for life what-
soever. One must be a complete failure in life to be any good at
telling stories.”
        How right she was.
        What she did have, though, were words of inimitable acu-
ity of which each of us has been, at one point or another in our
lives, touched dearly; before, of course, senility took hold. But who
among us will ever forget such timeless titbits of Prudence’s wis-
dom?
        “Why would you want to go and do something like that?”
        “That doesn’t look safe.”
        “Is that what you’re wearing?”
        “I can see your knees.”
        And of course.
        “Well, if it were me, I wouldn’t.”
        And she didn’t either. She didn’t gamble. She didn’t drink.
She didn’t travel. She didn’t fall in love. She didn’t drive. She didn’t
ride the bus. She didn’t even use a slippery slide or take turns on a
swing. Our dear Prudence didn’t do a single thing in her life. She
didn’t take a single risk. And that’s how she managed to live so long.
One hundred and sixty-four years!
        <<pause for applause>>
        Throughout her life she acquired many possessions, some
of which are buried with her today. All of them kept, like she until
her death, in pristine condition, most still wrapped in their original
packaging.
        And it was that care alone which saw her not succumb to,
not only pandemics of Cholera, The Spanish Flu, Smallpox, and

                                  128
World Wars One & Two, but also the disease that, since the dawn
of time had been ignorantly written off as rite of passage, old age.
        So, if we are to measure a life’s worth, well then time is deﬁ-
nitely the only commodity worth saving. All of us long to live for
as long as possible – to outrun and outmanoeuvre death at every
bend and turn. All of us long to live a life well into our hundreds,
no matter what the cost. And thanks to our dear Prudence, well
then this dream is a reality.
        Prudence loved nature. She loved animals, more so. But
she knew how dangerous nature could be. And like the animals in
the Savannah, whose mere existence is plagued by thirst, starva-
tion, and constant threat of a bloody and violent death, Prudence
sought the kind of sanctuary that would safeguard her from the
perils that shadowed all life on Earth. And it was in her mid-ﬁfties
that Prudence admitted herself into the zoo, in its ﬁrst human ex-
hibit, spending the following two thirds of her life next door to her
favourite animal, the captive lioness.
        I can still remember my ﬁrst visit to dear Prudence. Seeing
both her and Nany, The Lioness side by side, both with the same
idyllic and contented look in their eyes. Quiet, they were. Quiet,
peaceful, and calm, like a great lake. Their very existences were
placid. And I remember to this day, watching Prudence and Nany
sitting in quietude as both had their food served on a platter.
        Neither Prudence nor Nany had the threat of hunger or
starvation. Neither one had the threat of other predators, old age,
or death. Nether one was either hunter or prey. It truly was a beau-
tiful thing to see how tranquil the fabric of life could be without
the very essence of nature and existence picking at its threads.
        Most of us long, not only to live as long as Prudence had,
but to live a life as free as hers was, free from the shackles of fear,
shame, and anxiety. And thanks to the modern wonders of science
and engineering, not only was Prudence emancipated from the
curse of emotions and existential dread, but she was liberated too
from the trappings of entropy. For hers was a life without burden
or struggle. Hers was a life without death.
        And were it not for a faulty transformer, Prudence would

                                 129
still be with us today.
        For over a century Prudence lived in her enclosure, kept alive
by machines that fed soft vitamin rich mush down her throat and
into her stomach, and carried away too, the waste and excrement
from her bladder and bowels, into a small metal pail in the cor-
ner of her room. Dear Prudence, needn’t have been bothered with
chewing or swallowing, both of which account for such a great deal
of accidental death annually.
        Prudence, also, no longer had to breathe on her own. The
machines did everything for her. Every tiresome breath was no lon-
ger her burden or concern. Think of all the extra free time she got
from not having to do this one repetitive chore. In fact, in her en-
closure, there was nothing at all that Prudence had to do. All those
needless tasks of being alive, things that were just an absolute waste
of time, the machines did for her.
        Now, as much as a life is most certainly measured in time,
one knows that a life is truly measured by in what one acquired
along the way, and it would do Prudence no grace whatsoever, were
we not to mention all the money and valuables she had amassed in
her life.
        At her time of death, Prudence had saved over seven million
four hundred and sixty-two thousand, three hundred and twenty-
eight dollars. All of which are buried alongside her. What a remark-
able achievement to have saved so much money. Imagine if she had
died with even a dollar less?
        I know, neither can I.
        Prudence had seven sofas, two of which were red and blue,
while the others were more traditional beige. All of which were
covered in protective plastic wrapping so as not to be soiled by
wear and tear.
        She had four cellular phones, two gramophones, ten night-
gowns, three evening gowns, thirty-two summer hats – half of
which were trimmed with peacock feathers. She had three watches,
eleven brooches, nineteen necklaces, eight diamond rings, four gold
anklets, one hundred and thirty-four pairs of earrings, fourteen
pairs of shoes – none of which were heels, as I’m sure most of

                                 130
had heard Prudence say,
        “Whores wear heels.”
        She had three televisions, six desk lamps, two Betamax video
cassette players, twelve shower curtains, ﬁfty-eight towels, thirty
bedsheets for King, Queen, Double, and Single beds – though she
only ever own a single bed.
        She also had six credit cards, four cheque books and a credit
score of eight-forty.
        It would take another hour or so to go through the whole list
which, of course, we will be doing in its entirety over tea and bis-
cuits after the morning’s service. And we invite you all to tell your
story on which of Prudence’s possessions inspired you most. For
me it was her money. Undoubtedly. I’m not sure about you, but I
hope that one day that if I can die with even half of the money that
Prudence did, then I can die happen knowing my life was worth
living. And I for one plan to live my life to our dear Prudence’s
namesake, and have as little experiences as possible, meet life with
little to no chance or joy whatsoever, in the hope that I too can live
for as long as she did.
        Thank you and amen.
        <<Bow with applause>>




                                 131
132
Mary was a drunk,
and down on her luck,
But never was Mary a bore.
With a mouth like a gun,
and boy could it run,
She had every man on the ﬂoor.

Though her words they did slur,
It would never deter,
Her love for the drink and a tale.
Be it story or rhyme,
A sonnet or line,
She’d go at it hammer and nail.

And it’s fair to be said,
That in truth she’d be dead,
Were it not for her gift of the gab.
For her life it was shite,
but the booze made it right,
and her words, they could pick up the tab.

You see Mary she lived with a cunt of a man,
An asshole that no-one could stand.
A bitter old prick,
As crass as was thick,
And who spoke with the back of his hand.

And Mary she wore all the bruises and marks,
On her face, her arms, and her neck.
But the look in her eyes,
When she drank or reprised,
If you’d seen it, you’d never forget.




                                133
I can’t quite describe it,
except only to say,
that no man was ever the same.
The moment they came to take her away,
With no one but Mary to blame.

You see her husband was found,
all bludgeoned and bound,
Floating in a bag in the sea.
And with a pint in her hand,
And too drunk to stand,
Old Mary was ready to plea.

“No contest, your honour,
for every drink,
and every word i have said.
But as for that prick,
I’ve no shame and no guilt,
In how he ended up dead.”

And so, she drank her last pint,
With the hangman in sight,
And the rest of us down by the stairs.
And she told us a fable,
The best she was able,
Considering her state of affairs.

And though history would remember,
Her violence and temper,
For us it was hard to forget.
The way she could drink,
and thoughts she did think,
the most remarkable woman I’ve met.




                               134
135
Once upon a time, there was a fable about a tortoise and a hare,
a fable that foretold of the errs of arrogance and complacency
juxtaposed against the virtues of quiet perseverance and humility.
        It was a story that saw a vibrant young hare test his skill,
prowess, and stamina – that which made him a man’s kind of man
– against that of a dim-witted, slow-moving tortoise, a prehistoric-
looking animal that lived for such a long time simply because it
took a lifetime for it to accomplish what a hare could between
breakfast and brunch.
        It should have been an easy race. It should have been one
that commemorated the virtues of arrogance and complacency,
and, instead of championing humility, it should have exposed that
impotent and craven failing for what it was. But as luck would have
it, the race, marred by corruption and ill-dealings, did no such thing.
        It was a farce. It was a ﬁasco. And its result was entirely un-
true.
        “History is written by losers,” said The Hare. “My great,
great, great, great, great, great, grandfather won that race, fair and
square. You really think a dumb old tortoise is gonna beat a hare?”
        He had a point. Stories had, since the dawn of time, been
put together willy-nilly, sometimes in a manner that was sheer non-
sense, just to suit some half-baked moral that existed only in the
realm of sheer impossibility.
        Writers, for too long had gotten away with their absurd and
non-sensical distortions of the truth, for it was cowardly men who
gloriﬁed courage and honour, and merely the lonely and destitute
who romanticized love. And it was those without morals who
sought to deﬁne them.
        Enough, though, was enough.
        “These stories about my family are not true,” exclaimed The
Hare.
        His rage was palpable.
        “Our society has been cast from the mould of lies and mis-
givings.”
        He pounded his little paws on his chest as he spoke, like
some gargantuan silver-backed beast. His eyes, though always red,

                                 136
crackled and blazed like a forest ﬁre. His voice, too, was not as
sweet as a handful of honey-dipped cherries, not like it usually was.
No, today he raged and roared as if inside of his cute and ﬂuffy
little body, there was a giant bulldozer, one that was covered in
hand grenades and barbed wire and being driven by a singular of
pissed off boars. And it wanted to mow everybody down.
        “Let it go, Hare,” said The Donkey. “There’s nothing to
prove. Everyone knows that slow and steady wins the race.”
        The other animals all burst into rapturous applause.
        “Because what?” shouted The Hare. “A writer said so? A
writer, whose very existence is built upon imagining themselves as
experts in the art of all that eludes them? In what world is a tor-
toise faster than a hare?”
        “It’s been written. It’s been said.”
        “Everything written is ﬁction,” exclaimed The Hare.
        “Oh, booo!” shouted the other animals.
        “The only untruth is what we are hearing right now,” said
The Donkey.
        “That’s true,” said The Teacher. “Would you like me to read
the fable again?”
        “Oh, yes please!” said the class in glee.
        “No!” shouted The Hare, stamping his cute and ﬂuffy little
paws on the table.
        “I beg your pardon,” said The Teacher.
        “No,” he said again. “These stories are rubbish. They’re im-
plausible. They couldn’t possibly happen. And if these ridiculous
stories are what’s needed for these morals to ring true, well then
that means the morals are rubbish too.”
        Shocked, The Teacher was. Simply shocked.
        “Then what do you suppose?” she said.
        “We race again,” said The Hare.
        “Race again? Who?”
        “Me and him,” said The Hare, pointing to Pedro, the tiny
tortoise.
        Shocked, the whole class was. Simply shocked.
        That afternoon, though, as shocked as everyone had been,

                                137
they were all lined up by the old racetrack, deep in the enchanted
forest where all the gorgeous and fantastical animals lived. They
cheered loud and boisterous, and the wind blew strong.
        “I’m gonna kick your butt,” said The Hare, nudging up to
Pedro.
        Pedro, though, just took a big old gulp of air. He wasn’t big
on talking himself up. He didn’t much care for confrontation at
all. Heck, he’d even hide in his shell at roll call, when The Teacher
called out his name. None of this was made any easier by that darn
story having been written all those years ago.
        “See you at the end, slowpoke,” said The Hare, deridingly,
the moment the race started.
        And he was off.
        He was so fast and so fantastic it was clear from the outset
that, whoever had written that stupid fable had been lying out their
butt. How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two.
One to have the idea and the other to copy it. And even still, none
of them will actually get off their butts and do it.
        “Time to rewrite history,” said The Hare.
        And about time, too. This story had too long been told as
if its precept were consistent and true as if slow and steady would
ever actually win a race. A long time had passed, though; time
enough for a whole civilisation of men to have their way with the
enchanted forest, tearing most of it down to build shopping malls
and Pilates studios. So, even though the old track was still there, it
was trickier than before, what with all the urban development.
        “Just one more bend, baby,” said The Hare.
        He wasn’t going to make the same mistakes of that fallacious
and perﬁdious fable. What hare would? Hares were arrogant, yes,
in the build-up to competition and in the celebration of it, but not
in the thick of it!
        The ﬁnish line was around the bend, just as The Hare de-
clared. But The Hare got less than a hop away when some savage
beast came pouncing out of the shadows and dug its whetted and
razor-like fangs into his neck.
        “Argh!” screamed The Hare, incapable of any word

                                 138
whatsoever.
        The savage beast rolled about with The Hare in its jaws, lash-
ing its head back and forth so as to break every bone in The Hare’s
cute ﬂuffy body and sever his spine in two.
        “Help me,” he gasped, trying to pull himself along the
ground with sheer will alone.
        It was no good, though. All four of his cute ﬂuffy legs were
paralysed and his body, from the neck down, was gimp – like a bag
of lard. All he could do was blink, hoping that would be enough,
not only to escape this savage beast and save his life, but to get
himself over the ﬁnish line and win the race; it was less than hair’s
breadth away.
        “Whatchya got there, boy?”
        From the shadows came a human. He had with him a bag
of faeces in his hands, something human’s loved to collect. And in
his other, he held a red leash, one that would normally bind that
savage beast.
        “Somebody got themself a rabbit,” said The Human.
        Insolent fool.
        Then he called the savage beast over and patted it on the top
of its ruinous head.
        “Good boy,” he said.
        Then they left, the savage beast with The Hare, still blinking,
hanging limply out of its bloodied jaws, and The Human, carrying
its bag of prized faeces in its hand, whistling some dark and nefari-
ous tune about blinded mice.
        And all the way back at the starting line, Pedro the Tortoise
continued his terribly slow pursuit through the enchanted forest,
being cheered along as he did by all those who sought to believe in
the magic of the written word, those that believed that writers were
the true patriots of this world, better even than God or penicillin.
        “One more bend,” he said, after eight long and laboursome
days of racing.
        The ﬁnish line was just in sight. Onwards, Pedro pushed, his
slow and steady spirit unyielding, just like the fable had mentioned.
It wasn’t just the other animals who were cheering him on, it was

                                 139
the annals of history. Around the last bend, he went, onto a track
of another sort, one made for race cars and go-karts.
        “Watch out Mario!” shouted Luigi.
        It was too late. The plumber turned go-kart racer had no
time to react. Barely an inch from the ﬁnish line, he saw the green
tortoise blocking his way, but there was nothing he could do.
        “Nooooooooooooo!” he screamed as his kart ran over the
tortoise.
        Fly into the air, they did, tortoise and kart. And then just
as quickly, they smashed into the ground. The plumber and the
tortoise were ﬂipped maybe a hundred and ﬁfty times, each whack
of their face on the racetrack breaking a different bone. Roll and
roll, they did, until eventually they came to rest in a bloodied mess,
trapped beneath the wreckage of a crumpled go-kart.
        “Call the medics!” shouted Princess Peach.
        “Get the damn ﬁre brigade!” shouted Yoshi in return.
        It was too late, though. Even if they could put out the ﬂames,
with the types of burns that Mario and Pedro had already received,
neither one of them would ever want to survive. Horriﬁc, their in-
juries were. If there were a God, he would kill them both right now.
He would relieve them of their dreadful suffering.
        Shocked, the world watched on. Simply shocked.
        “What the hell was a tortoise doing on a racetrack?” wrote
one newspaper.
        “Surely there had to be a lesson to learn from this,” wrote
another.




                                140
141
Once upon a time, there was a darling little girl who lived on a farm
with her grandad. It was a small farm, and she was only a small girl
– ﬁve years old in fact. And out there as they were, in the middle
of nowhere, they didn’t really grow anything. They didn’t even have
any animals.
        It was just Olivia and Gramps.
        “Olivia!” shouted Gramps. “Where’s my damn Metamucil?”
        Gramps was always shouting. He didn’t really have an inside
voice. And he was always in a bad mood too. Olivia, though, didn’t
worry too much. She was always outside poking scorpions with
sticks and playing her favourite toy in the world; a rubber crow
she had gotten from the nice people at Social Services when they
brought her to come live with Gramps.
        Olivia loved that rubber crow. She called it Bob.
        “I’m a crow. I can ﬂy, high in the sky. I’m a crow, I never cry.”
        Olivia and Bob were always together. It didn’t matter if it
was bedtime, bath time, playtime, dinner time, or even quiet time,
when Gramps made her sit in the dark and grubby old water tank
to smarten herself up and think about what she’d done – wherever
Olivia was, Bob was always with her.
        He was more than a rubber crow; he was a best friend.
        “Olivia!” shouted Gramps. “Get in here!”
        Olivia, though, stayed right where she was, hiding inside a
broken refrigerator. She wasn’t hiding from Gramps, though, she
was hiding from Bob. They were playing hide and seek in fact.
Olivia was in the old fridge and Bob was up on top of the well,
counting to ten.
        “If you’re not here in ten seconds I’ll whip you good,”
shouted Gramps.
        And he would too. Gramps loved that old belt. The buckle
never broke, no matter how hard or how many times you whipped
a girl. It was a work of art, true craftsmanship. They didn’t make
belts like that anymore. These days everything was made to fall
apart as soon as you took it home.
        “Olivia, goddammit!”


                                  142
       Olivia couldn’t hear a thing, though. She wasn’t insolent,
thick-headed, or stupid, not like Gramps always said. It’s just that it
was quiet inside the fridge, and she was trying to be a quiet as pos-
sible so Bob wouldn’t ﬁnd her.
       “Bob’s never gonna ﬁnd me,” she said, laughing as she did.
       “I can bloody well hear you,” shouted Gramps. “Get out
here before I throw you in that well.”
       This time Olivia heard. The timing, though, was perfect. The
game was as good as over anyway. If Bob hadn’t found her by now,
there was no way he ever would.
       “You’re not very good at this game, Bob,” she said, leaving
the fridge.
       Bob, balanced on the well, didn’t respond.
       “If I have to say your name one more time I swear….”
       Whenever Gramps didn’t ﬁnish a sentence it meant he was
super mad. So, Olivia ran inside to see what the problem was. Usu-
ally, he didn’t need her for anything. He had his gin and a clean
diaper, and it was still before ten.
       “You’re bloody useless,” said Gramps. “No wonder your
parents didn’t want you.”
       It was sad to hear things like that, but Olivia didn’t let it get
her down. She had Bob, after all, and he would say the absolute
opposite. Every night when they went to bed, and whenever they
were locked together in that grubby old water tank, Bob would
squeeze up against her heart and remind her, over and over, “You
are not alone. You are wanted. You are loved.”
       “You’re a burden,” said Gramps. “Like a festering boil on my
arse. What did I ever do to deserve you?”
       Sometimes Gramps didn’t need anything at all. He’d just call
Olivia in just so that he could say a bunch of bad things. And he
wouldn’t stop either, not until she cried. Olivia, though, rarely cried
anymore, so most of the time she just pretended.
       “Oh no,” she said to herself, pretending to wipe away tears.
“I forgot about Bob.”
       And she had, too. When she left him, he was perched on top
of the well. It wasn’t the most sturdy well either. If truth be told, it

                                  143
wasn’t particularly well built. But worse than that, there was a bit
of a wind blowing outside, and Bob wasn’t tied down or anything.
      “Gotta run, Gramps,” she said, running out the door, ignor-
ing the old man calling her an imp and a retard. “Bob needs help.”
      But it was too late!
      “Oh no!” she shouted.
      A big gust of wind had blown Bob right off the top of the
well.
      “Stay there, Bob, I’m coming.”
      Olivia ran to the side of the well where Bob had been
perched. Even though the wall was pretty high up, she could see
that Bob deﬁnitely wasn’t there. The gust of wind must have blown
him off. It must have pushed him right in.
      “Oh no!” she said again. “Bob is in the well.”
      And he was. All the way down in the pit of darkness, ﬂoat-
ing about on top of the water, impossibly far from a little girl’s
reach. Impossibly far from anyone’s reach, really. And considering
there was no bucket for this well, poor old Bob was stuck in a place
where nobody could get him out.
      “I love, you Bob,” she shouted. “I’ll save you.”
      But how on Earth would she do a thing like that? She could
barely even reach the top of the rickety old wall.
      “I know,” she said. “I’ll get Gramps. He’ll know what to do.”
      So, she ran inside and pulled on the old man’s sleeve.
      “Gramps, Gramps, Gramps, Gramps,” she said, a hundred
times over.
      “What the god damned hell shut up!” said Gramps in reply.
      Gramps didn’t like to be interrupted when he was watching
soap operas.
      But this was an emergency! If Olivia didn’t get Bob out of
the well soon, he might get scared to death. And besides, they were
always together. It was a pact they had made - to never let each
other spend a single second alone. And there he was, poor little
Bob, alone in the dark at the bottom of a well.
      “You have to help, Gramps. Bob is in the well.”
      “Good,” said Gramps. “Fuck Bob.”

                                144
       “But Gramps……..”
       “What time is it child?”
       Whenever he called her child, it usually meant that the next
thing he was about to do was whip her. It was kind of like a warn-
ing, just to let her know she had better be prepared.
       “TV time,” said Olivia, deﬂated.
       Gramps already had his lucky belt wrapped around his hand.
       “I don’t wanna hear a bloody thing from you,” he said, mak-
ing the big old buckle clang against the side of his metal chair. “Get
the hell outside, and don’t come in here until it’s time to change
me.”
       Gramps always changed his diaper after the soap operas.
       “But...Bob…”
       All Gramps had to do was raise the belt and Olivia got the
message. Out she ran, into the front garden, looking for something
to help her pull Bob out of the well. But what could she use? There
was nothing here; lots of old junk sure, but nothing much that
would help.
       “I’m coming Bob,” she said, resilient.
       And that she was – resilient that is. Olivia grabbed a bunch
of broken televisions and dragged them over to the well, piling
them on top of each other so she could use them as a step.
       “It worked!” she said.
       She was so happy she almost forgot that she was supposed
to be sad and worried.
       “There you are!” she shouted. “I can see you, Bob.”
       And she could. Leaning over the edge, she could see Bob,
only barely, at the bottom of the well. But he was so very very very
very very far away. How the heck would she get him out?
       “Don’t worry Bob. I won’t leave you alone.”
       There was nothing she could do. In truth, she knew this, but
she was a ﬁve-year-old girl, she believed in pixies and magic. So, she
climbed off the edge of the well and sat on the stack of TVs with
her back against the wall. She must have crossed every ﬁnger on
her hand and made a hundred thousand wishes before eventually,
she got sad, and when she got sad, she got mad.

                                 145
        Olivia must have hit her back against the wall a dozen times.
It was on the thirteenth, though, that something magical happened.
One of the bricks at the top of the well broke off and fell all the
way down to the bottom of the well – I mean, right down to the
bottom. And when it did, the water level rose, just a bit.
        Olivia, though, didn’t notice this. Not at ﬁrst, anyway. She
was still angry and wanted to push more stones in – you know, on
account of not being able to save her best friend, Bob.
        So, she went around the well and pushed each brick into the
water, and when she did, each time, the water level rose just that
little bit more. It was by the sixteenth brick that Olivia realised that
she could see Bob better than she had before. He wasn’t ﬂoating
about in the darkness anymore. He was in the light; still out of
reach, but he was a hell of a lot closer than he had been before.
         “Hang on, Bob,” she shouted cheerfully.
        Then she ran around the well, pushing brick after brick into
the water below. Slowly the water level rose so that, by the time
she threw the last brick in, Bob was barely a hand’s reach away.
Olivia kneeled down over the well, which was now just a hole in
the ground, and reached her arm in, but it was no good, Bob was
still too far.
        If she had a couple more bricks the water level would rise
enough so she could reach him. But there were no bricks left. There
was nothing at all she could throw in.
        “I’ll be back in a sec,” she said. “I’m gonna get Gramps.”
        Then she ran back into the house, so happy with herself. The
ﬁrst couple of bricks had been an accident, but the rest had been
all her. She’d used her brain and her wits to solve a problem.
        Solve a problem? Save a darn life!
        “Gramps. I did the most amazing thing. Bob is ok. I mean,
Bob is gonna be ok.”
        “What did I tell you?”
        Gramps didn’t even let her respond. He whipped her across
the face three times, the last of which, making a little cut on her
cheek.
        “You couldn’t wait one more bloody minute,” he said. “And

                                 146
now look what you make me have to do. It’s your bloody fault,” he
said, shaking the belt at her red and bloodied cheek. “Don’t come
crying to me. You knew the rules. You knew what would happen.
You did this to yourself.”
       Olivia wasn’t crying, though. Well, she was a little. But they
were pain tears and not sad ones. Even if she did want to cry, she
didn’t have time.
       “I’m sorry for speaking at TV time,” she said, as he liked her
to say it. “Can you help me now? Bob is nearly out. I just need your
help to reach him.”
       “No,” said Gramps.
       “But…”
       “I said no, you stupid cunt. I don’t care about your stupid
bird. I don’t give a good god damn about you. Now, wheel me to
bed!”
       He could say all he wanted about her, that didn’t matter. But
hearing him say mean things about Bob didn’t just make Olivia
upset, it made her angry to the bone. It made her want to do bad
things; things she would never even consider doing if she had been
shown even an inch of love in her life. It made her want to hurt
the old man. It made her want to see him cry. It made her want to
wheel the old bastard out the front and push his stupid wheelchair
to the bottom of the well.
       So, she did.
       “Yay!” she said, as the water level rose that bit more. “Bob,
you’re free!”
       At the top of the well, Bob bobbed about. And below him,
Gramps, still strapped to his wheelchair, slowly sank to the bottom
of the well.
       “I love you so much,” said Olivia, taking Bob in her arms
and squeezing him against her chest.
       “I love you, too,” said Bob, the rubber crow.




                                147
148
Once upon a time, a man entered his house with a parcel in his
hands.
        “What’s that?” asked The Mother.
        “It’s a present,” replied The Father. “For the family.”
        “Well then, open it up,” said she, excited as could be.
        The Man turned the parcel over in his hands looking for a
fold or a tear in the brown paper so as to carefully unwrap it, as
opposed to just digging his nails right in.
        “Oh, you’re taking forever,” said The Mother.
        “Yeah, Dad,” shouted their two children: a boy and a girl.
        Thrilled, they were, thrilled to the very bone. So thrilled, in
fact, that they were almost jumping out of their skin. The more
careful The Father was, though, the more attentive he became to
the process, and as such, the more exhaustingly slow it all seemed.
        “You’re taking forever,” said The Son.
        “Yeah! The suspense is killing me,” said The Daughter.
        The two children and their mother danced on the spot in
rampant anticipation while The Father – always the slowpoke -
took his sweet time, carefully picking at the corners of tape that
were wrapped around the brown box – a box, mind you that was
big enough to ﬁt a dozen toys or a nifty electrical appliance.
        “Oh my God, hurry up!”
        Every second that parcel was not unwrapped felt like a
month or a year.
        “Give it to me,” said The Mother, grabbing the parcel and
tearing off the paper.
        The two kids joined her too, ripping and pulling with their
jolly claws.
        “What the heck is this?” said The Son.
        He had the thing in his hands, whatever it was.
        “It’s not like any toy I’ve ever seen before.”
        “There’s a card with it,” said The Mother, picking up the
torn paper.
        “What does it say, Mum?”
        The two children were buttered with confused fascination.
        “What does it say? What does it say?”

                                 149
        “Time is an illusion,” she said, a little dumbfounded.
        “It’s just a stupid box,” said The Boy.
        And it was too. Stupid, maybe not, but just a box, deﬁnitely.
It was no bigger than a Rubik’s Cube which for The Son was a little
disheartening, considering the size of the cardboard box it came
in. It was simple too. There was little much to it except for a slot in
the middle where it looked like a key went inside. That’s it!
        “I don’t get it,” said The Boy, turning the toy over and over
in his hands, trying to ﬁnd somewhere to plug in a remote control
or attach a robot arm or giant gun. “How do you play with it?”
        “It’s not that kind of toy,” said The Father.
        “If you can’t play with it then it’s not a toy.”
        “We have to build it ﬁrst,” said The Father.
        “Build it? Well, then it’s deﬁnitely not a toy. Why didn’t you
just buy one that was already built?”
        “I thought this would be more fun.”
        “Looks boring,” said The Daughter. “I’m gonna watch car-
toons.”
        “Me too,” said The Son.
        “But don’t you want to help me put it together?”
        “How long will it take?”
        “How long is a piece of string?” said The Father.
        “Too long,” said The Son.
        “Really? You’re not going to help me build it? I thought you
said you wanted to be an inventor?”
        “I said an inventor, not a builder!”
        “Oh, come on. It’ll only take a minute. I promise.”
        “A minute?”
        The young boy made the thought of sixty seconds seem like
a Venusian day.
        “That’s forever,” he said.
        “We’ll be done before you know it. Once we get going and
focus on the process, time will ﬂy. What do you say?”
        “Nah,” said The Son. “You can do it. Tell me when it’s done,
though. OK? Love you, Dad. Cartoons are more fun!”
        And so, left to his own devices, The Father sat down on the

                                 150
ground and started to ﬁgure out in his head, how to make the time
machine work. There weren’t any instructions, you see, only the
small glass cube itself and a small key, in a clear plastic packet.
       “So, what is it supposed to be?” asked The Mother.
       “It’s a time machine,” said The Father.
       “Doesn’t look like much of a time machine to me,” said The
Mother, unimpressed.
       “What’s a time machine supposed to look like?”
       “Bigger, for a start. I mean…aren’t you supposed to sit in it?
That thing is barely big enough to ﬁt a couple of double-A batter-
ies. When I think of time machines, I think of Back to The Future,
Dr Who, Bill and Ted. Even the Tardis had a door.”
       “It’s not a literal time machine.”
       “You don’t say.”
       “It’s supposed to teach you about relativity. The idea was to
get the kids doing something and not sitting in front of the TV all
day. It’s one thing to say you want to BE an inventor and it’s an-
other to actually sit down and invent something.”
       “So, what do you have to do?”
       “I’m trying to ﬁgure that out.”
       The Mother stared at the small glass cube in her husband’s
hands. It was simple looking, but not in any striking kind of way.
There was absolutely nothing to its design at all.
       “How does it work?” asked The Mother.
       “Not sure.”
       “What does it do?”
       “Not sure.”
       “Why don’t you just put the key in that bit?”
       There were only two pieces after all: a small glass cube – one
with a tiny slot in the middle where a key should go, and of course,
the key to go with it.
       “It won’t be that simple,” said The Father. “It’s a complex
build. It says so on the box. It’s like a puzzle. You have to look past
what’s there and see what isn’t.”
       “I’m with the kids on this one,” said The Mother. “Are you
cooking dinner tonight?”

                                 151
       “Yep. Just give me a second to ﬁgure this next part out. Then
I’ll whip something up.”
       A second, though, quickly turned into several hours and
while the kids pestered their The Mother for something to eat, The
Father sat cross-legged on the ﬂoor, completely entranced by the
small glass cube, turning it over and over in his hands, from left to
right each time, his eyes glazed with sweet and sticky wonder.
       “Hey, you in there,” shouted The Mother.
       “Huh?” said The Father. “Me?”
       “You said you’d only be a minute.”
       “Yeah, I will. Just a minute. I promise.”
       “It’s eight-thirty. We’re starving.”
       “Eight-thirty?”
       “Yeah.”
       “I’ll be there in a second.”
       “That’s what you said four hours ago.”
       Four hours? She was exaggerating, surely. He’d only just sat
down and started to tinker with the small glass cube. It had to have
been more like four minutes, at most.
       “You’ve been ﬁddling with that damn thing since you got
home. It’s almost the kids’ bedtimes.”
       “Bedtime?” shouted both children. “Noooooooooo!”
       “Tell that to your father.”
       “Dad! We’re starving!”
       “Alright, then order something,” said The Father, still fo-
cused on the small glass cube.
       “Really?” said both kids at once.
       “Yeah,” said The Father. “Whatever you want. I’ll be there in
a second. I just need to ﬁgure this next part out. Besides, I’m not
really that hungry.”
       He wasn’t, either. Since the moment he picked up the small
glass cube, it was like he had entered another dimension altogether,
one where the mind didn’t tire, and the body didn’t starve.
       He had been at it all day, turning it over and over, from left to
right every time. Focused, he was, some might even say obsessed.
The day itself passed as if it were packed into a single second. So

                                  152
fast was it that The Father hadn’t noticed any of the goings-on
in the day. So focused was he, on that small glass cube, that the
world around him seemed to move at such a blur that it vanished
altogether.
       “Honey, it’s past midnight, are you coming to bed?”
       “I’ll be there in a second,” he said, turning the small glass
cube over in his hands. “I just need to ﬁgure this next part out.”
       Weeks went by and The Father was no closer to building the
time machine than he had been when he ﬁrst sat down. Over and
over the small glass cube turned in his hands, from left to right
every time. Not once, though, did The Father ever blink. Not once
did he ever look away.
       “Are you going to work today?”
       “Yep,” said The Father. “I’ll be there in a second. I just need
to ﬁgure this next part out.”
       Enraged, The Mother threw his phone at his head.
       “Did you even see Gordon’s message? If you’re not at work
today they’re going to ﬁre you. You haven’t been in for three weeks.
They’ve had enough. They…..”
       All The Father could hear, though, was the beat of his own
heart as, with each twist and turn of the small glass cube, he sensed
himself on the cusp of solving its seemingly impossible riddle.
       “Almost there,” he thought. “Almost got it.”
       “You don’t come to bed anymore,” continued The Mother.
“You don’t eat. You haven’t bathed. Have you even seen what you
look like?”
       She made a valid point. His hair was knotted. His beard was
unkempt. And he stank like a wet dog. None of this, though, he
noticed, for his every sense – his every nerve and ﬁbre - was fo-
cused on the small glass cube in his hands.
       “Almost there,” he thought. “Almost got it.”
       Weeks soon turned into years and years into decades. And
through the years his children grew. Adults, they were, now, with
children and lives of their own. His wife, too, had aged decades in
the space of what seemed like the blink of an eye. For thirty years
he had sat there cross-legged, ﬂipping that small glass cube over

                                 153
and over in his hands, oblivious to the world about him.
       “Hey, Dad,” said The Son. “There’s something I have to tell
you.”
       “Just a sec,” said The Father, focused on the small glass cube.
       “It’s important. Could you put that down, please?”
       “I’ll be there in a second, Son. I just have to ﬁgure this next
part out.”
       “No more,” said The Mother, packing her suitcase. “Thirty
years of my life I’ve lost waiting for you to put that damn thing
down, waiting for you to come back to your family. Thirty damn
years watching you ogle that stupid cube when you don’t even have
a second to spare to look at your own children – for me, your wife.
Thirty years! No more,” she screamed, deﬁant. “I’ve had enough.
I have too much self-respect. I have the rest of my life to live. It’s
over,” she said, walking out the front door. “We’re done.”
       The Mother slammed the door and rushed out to the car,
waiting for her The Son who, as stubborn as he was, was still trying
to get through to his The Father.
       “We have to talk,” he said.
       “I’ll be right there,” said The Father.
       “Dad.”
       “Once second, Son. I just have to….”
       “Dad, I have cancer.”
       He half expected The Father to drop the cube right then
and there.
       “Lymphoma.”
       All The Father could hear, though, were his own thoughts,
coaxing him on.
       “Almost there,” they spoke. “Almost got it.”
       Frenzied, seething, and hopping mad, The Son ripped the
cube out of his father’s hands, something he wished he could have
done thirty years ago. Instantly, as if a bucket of cold water had
been thrown in his face, The Father caught a glimpse of his objec-
tive reality.
       “Son?” he said as if waking from a dream. “Is that you?”
       He barely recognized the man standing before him. Only a

                                 154
second ago, he was just a boy, and yet there he stood, a father him-
self, with a life and family of his own, and a tumour the size of a
lush pear, growing out of his neck.
       “I’m not looking for an apology,” said The Son. “We’re well
past that.”
       It was the ﬁrst time The Son had held the cube in his hands.
He turned it once or twice with a bemused look, unable to see
how something so plain and simple had consumed his father for all
these years. And with nary an inch of effort or thought, he took the
small key that was still wrapped in its original plastic and pushed it
into the small slot on the face of the small glass cube.
       “You did it!” exclaimed The Father. “By God, you did it!
Eureka!”
       The past thirty years The Father had spent, looking for some
impossible solution, turning that small glass cube like the pages of
a book, were written in some alien tongue of which he could make
no sense nor decipher.
       And in the end, all he had to do was stick a key in a slot.
       “Mum’s coming to live with us,” said The Son. “While I do
my treatment.”
       Then he threw the stupid cube back at his father.
       “Thirty years I waited for you to be a dad,” he said. “It may
as well have been a lifetime. And for what it’s worth, I forgive you.
But don’t go thinking that’s for you, it’s not. It’s for me. Forgiving
you means no longer having to wish and hope for you to return.
It means no longer having to hurt – to feel abandoned, unwanted,
unseen, and unloved. It means letting go. Letting go of the sadness
that consumed me - letting go of you. Forgiving you means me
ﬁnally being able to be free.”
       Then he dragged his mother’s suitcase out the door and left
his father for good.
       “I can’t believe it,” said The Father, holding the small glass
cube in the air as if it were a holy chalice. “It’s done. It’s actually
done. The time machine is built.”
       The Father rested the small glass cube on the dining table
and stared at it in stupendous and donnish wonder. The last thirty

                                 155
years had been all about this moment. What would happen when
he turned the key? Would time stop? Would it skip a beat? Would
it turn back on itself ? Would he dematerialize – the atoms in his
body dissolving like grains of salt in the open sea? Would he slip
into another dimension? Would he be swept up by particles and
waves, and then cast adrift in the inﬁnite ocean of time? The possi-
bilities were endless. His excitement was almost too much to bear.
        Slowly, The Father turned the key.
        It clicked as it fell into place.
        “Nothing?”
        He turned the key again.
        “There’s gotta be some mistake.”
        Fraught with panic, The Father ﬂicked the key back and
forth a hundred times, but none was more eventful than the last.
Desperate he was, riding the crest of callow anticipation, staring
down below into a trough of fetid and sobering disappointment.
But for all that commotion, nothing happened – nothing at all.
        If this were indeed a time machine like the box suggested, it
was not like any that he or anyone else mind you, had ever imag-
ined. There were no ﬂashing lights. There was no beeping or whir-
ring. There was no interdimensional portal. There was no rift in
time or space. There was no sign at all, in fact, that the device was
even on.
        It appeared as if the small glass cube were, in fact, just a
small glass cube.
        “You’ve got to be kidding me,” said The Father. “It was just
a stupid ornament. What a waste of time.”
        It was only when he looked in the mirror that he saw how
right he was. Gone was the young man he had once been, replaced
instead, with the veneer of an old man, one whose face was cracked
and folded like pastry.
        His heart sank, and his stomach sickened.
        “What have I done?” he thought.
        Thirty years had passed him by. Not in a second, mind you,
not like he would have you believe. Thirty years had passed that had
taken exactly thirty years to unravel. Were he to tell you, though,

                                156
The Father would say that it still felt like yesterday, the day he ﬁrst
picked up that small glass cube.
       “I wish I could go back,” he said, yanking the key out. “I
would do it all different.”
       And so, he sat cross-legged on the ﬂoor again, turning the
small glass cube over and over in his hands, the opposite way to
which he had before, this time from right to left. And as he did, the
front door swung open and The Son entered, dragging his moth-
er’s suitcase behind him.
       “Thirty years I waited for you to be a dad,” he said. “It may
as well have been a lifetime. And for what it’s worth, I forgive you.
But don’t go thinking that’s for you, it’s not. It’s for me. Forgiving
you means no longer having to……”




                                 157
158
A boy stares at his reﬂection,
And sees an old man looking back.
“Where did the time go?” he wonders,
and “How did we ever lose track?”
“Is this the same person,
that amounts to wondrous things?”
“How long did we spend dreaming?”
“Is this reﬂection really as it seems?”
“Who are you, old man?”
“I’ve seen you in times before.”
“Is this, the face that greets me,
The mask I always wore?”
The old man drops his stare,
And moves towards the door.
The boy he thought he was,
He can recognize no more.




                 159
160
Once upon a time, in a forest that was far from the world of men
and machines, a child was born. A child unlike any other. A child
whose life would invoke as much wonder, belief, and reverie, as
his death would; hope, meaning, and aspiration. A child of magic.
A child of sorcery. A child of Heaven. The son, as he would be
known, of the snake.
       And it was on a night like non-other, a night where the moon
was ﬁlled with such abundance that its light overﬂowed and spilled
out into the forest below; light that was almost as bright and warm
as the sun itself. A night so strange that even the bright and colour-
ful insects and all the merry birds were awake, ﬂying about – ﬂut-
tering their pretty wings and singing their gorgeous songs.
       And it was hidden in a small cave, one made beneath a pile
of rock and stone, that a young lass, one whose fear and worry
ached far worse than the pain that coursed through her body, lay
in the only bit of darkness she could ﬁnd and gave birth to a small
child, a boy.
       A boy she would not name.
       For the young lass, spurred by the fear and worry in her
thoughts, covered the small child in sticks and leaves and brush,
and then ran, as fast and as far as she could; farther than fear and
worry could travel, leaving the small child behind.
       Cry, the child did; loud and relentless it cried; while outside
its cave, all the coloured insects ﬂuttered about in extravagant pa-
rade while the merry birds all chirped and whistled, circling the
child, like a plume of smoke above a crackling ﬁre. The child cried,
as loud as the moon was bright, to the mother which had aban-
doned it until its voice crackled and croaked. It cried with all of its
might until its voice, like its mother, had left it altogether.
       “I found it,” said a farmer in the morning, drawn by the
circling birds to the small hidden cave. “A wee infant, it is. A small
baby child.”
       The Farmer didn’t dare move the boy, though. He dared not
even get close.
       “Keep back,” he warned, to those coming from the glen.
“One move and the child might die.”

                                 161
       You see, the child lay on its back, it did, barely a hand’s reach
from the opening of the cave. The townsfolk could all see him
as clear as day. Tiny, he was, but with a smile that could light a
thousand candles. His little hands and his little feet grasped at and
pushed against the air while he rocked back and forth – all soft and
gentle - inside the tight and inescapable coil of a hissing snake.
       “A King Cobra, it is,” shouted The Farmer.
       He approached the snake on the tips of his toes, quietly, with
a stick in his hand. The snake eyed him as he moved towards the
child and coiled tighter, hissing as it did, its enormous head looking
at the feeble man, ready and willing to strike.
       “We cannot leave the child,” said the townsfolk. “The snake
will eat it.”
       “I would very much doubt that,” said a chieftain, dressed
in brown robes and carrying a reverent and sagacious expression.
“This child has come from the heavens. This is the work of God.”
       There was no doubt in his voice whatsoever.
       “How do you know?” asked The Farmer.
       “Explain to me how a child is born without a mother,” said
The Chieftain.
       The Townsfolk all gasped. It had been sung about, yes, of
the babes that grew, like dandelions, in the garden of Eden, sprout-
ing from the Earth and coming to blossom ‘neath the gleam of
God’s divine grace, but never before had a single one of them ever
born witness to such blatant impossibility.
       “Explain me this,” said The Chieftain. “Convince me,
even…. how a child can come from anywhere else but a womb,
and I will take your word that this child is not the son of God.”
       Neither The Farmer nor the rest of the townsfolk could.
       “It’s a miracle,” said The Farmer.
       “It’s a sign,” said others. “God has sent us a sign.”
       The townsfolk all cheered.
       The past years had been difﬁcult, decades even. They had
almost been too much to bear. So heavy was the weight they had
carried that most, not all mind you, but most, had given up hope.
Some had even lost their faith. Seeing this child then, one that had

                                  162
been born without a mother, one that had been born of the virgin
Earth, one that had been born on faith alone, was as a welcoming
and relieving sight as the ﬁrst ﬂower of Spring.
        “We are saved,” shouted The Farmer. “Praised be. We are
saved!”
        “Hallelujah!” chanted everyone else.
        Around the child, though, the snake kept its coil, lessening
its grip only when the townsfolk stepped a yard or two away. Were
they to save the child, they would have to be as quick as they were
quiet and cunning.
        “If this is the Son of God,” said The Farmer.
        “Which it is,” declared The Chieftain. “The Son of God, he
most certainly is.”
        “Then, trapped as he is by this iniquitous serpent, it is a test
of God upon us.”
        “A test it most certainly is,” said The Chieftain. “For God
has planted the fruit of which we must reap. From the clutches of
Satan, we must rescue our salvation. For the sake of this child’s life.
For the sake of our own. For the sake of our souls and for the sake
of The Kingdom of Heaven, as above and so below.”
        But how on Earth would they do such a thing?
        “We will trick it,” said The Farmer. “When it sleeps, we shall
replace the child with a sack of grain, and the stupid serpent shall
be none the wiser.”
        “Brilliant idea,” said The Chieftain.
        “Flawless,” said the rest of the townsfolk.
        Later that day, when the sun hung overhead like a ball of
ﬁre, the townsfolk crept through the forest, towards the cave where
The Son of God lay, forlorn and imperilled, in the clutches of that
wicked snake.
        “We must be quiet like the sun, creeping upon the ‘morn,”
said The Farmer. “Should that serpent so much as sense our inten-
tion, it will strike, and then we are all doomed.”
         The weight of their every step was heaviest in their hearts
and minds.
        “Wait,” shouted The Farmer. “Something moves in the

                                  163
in the trees. Something beastly. Something savage. Something that
would make a meal of us all.”
       It was true. From deep in the forest came the most distress-
ing sound, a cacophony of rumbles and roars as tree after tree was
felled by some gargantuan beast.
       “Stay together,” shouted The Farmer. “Our size, as one, will
scare it away.”
       Their size, though, as one, was pitiful, and they all knew it.
Neither one of the townsfolk was armed, and even if they were,
not one of them was trained in the art of war.
       “Brace yourselves!” shouted The Farmer.
       From out of the trees a giant bear pounced, racing towards
the child in the cave; its sight set on an easy meal. Roar, it did. It
bellowed even. Such was the hunger in its belly. But it got barely an
inch outside the cave before the serpent struck, latching its razor-
like fangs onto the bear’s face, thrashing its body around as it did,
tearing out the bear’s eye and taking with it, half of its snout.
       “Good heavens,” cried The Chieftain. “The serpent has
saved the child.”
       And it had. At no point had the child been troubled or both-
ered. At no point had the child been at risk. Even as the serpent
struck, it did so with most of its body still softly coiled around the
infant, keeping the boy safe, secure, and warm. And when the battle
had been won, the snake lowered its body once again and rested its
head beside the child’s as if to say, “I love you. I will always protect
you from harm.”
       “The snake is no devil,” said The Chieftain.
       “Well, what is she?” asked The Farmer.
       “She is the divine protector.”
       The words alone sent a ripple of shock through the towns-
folk.
       “She is the mother?” asked The Farmer. “The holy mother?”
       “She is,” said The Chieftain, with not a lick of doubt in his
mind.
       “Well then we cannot move the child,” said The Farmer.
       The Chieftain smiled. He had never doubted his faith, but

                                  164
had, from time to time, wondered if ever he would be blessed with
proof. Leading these people through their difﬁcult lives, you see,
feeding them the faith and inspiration of which they coveted, had
been no easy feat.
       “We shall build our temple about the snake,” said The Chief-
tain, merrily. “Our time has come. God has reached out. He has
sent for us. Hallelujah.”
       “Hallelujah,” chanted the townsfolk.
       Years past and the infant child, the boy without a name, grew
to become a young lad. Six years in fact. And every moment of his
life he spent, curled inside the serpent’s coil, full of love and grace,
and kept safe from harm.
       Many times, beasts came from within the forest, driven by
the sweet scent of innocence and holiness. And each time, no mat-
ter the size of the beast, and no matter their number, the serpent
did as God had intended of it, pitting savagery upon the savage,
keeping peace and divinity upon the child.
       Their village, shaped like the serpent itself, coiled around
the temple. Daily, they worshipped, not just the boy, but the snake
which had been sent by God to protect him, wearing, around their
necks, pendants in the shape of an S. On their bellies they slithered,
day and night, hissing at one another, in praise of the holy mother.
       “All hail Mother Serpent,” chanted The Chieftain.
       “Hail! Hail! Hail!” chanted the townsfolk in reply.
       Though their lives had become no easier since the coming
of The Son of God – their crops just as blighted and diseased as
they had always been – the townsfolk greeted every day with grate-
ful splendour, ignoring the stinging pain of their many blisters and
sores, and forgetting altogether, the constant ache from the pit of
their empty bellies.
       “All hail The Son of The Snake,” they chanted from dawn
to dusk.
       “All hail, he, The Son of God.”
       And on the day that the boy would turn seven, the strangest
thing occurred.
       “The boy is gone,” shouted The Farmer.

                                  165
        “The boy is gone!” cried the townsfolk in reply.
         Cry, the townsfolk did; loud and relentless they cried.
        “The Son of God,” has returned home, shouted The Chief-
tain. “Praised be. Hallelujah. We have done our work. We have
served God well. We have saved The Son. We have saved mankind.
We have saved The Kingdom of Heaven!”
        Not only had the boy gone, but the snake had too.
        “All hail Mother Snake,” preached The Chieftain.
        “Hail! Hail! Hail!”
        “All hail The Son of God.”
        “Hail! Hail! Hail!”
        Inside that cave, further than light would care to go, further
still than any man would dare to follow, the great serpent slept. Ex-
hausted she was, more tired than she had ever been before. Deep
in the farthest part of the cave, where no man could perturb her,
she lay coiled in the damp, cool darkness, digesting the young boy
she had eaten the night before.
        You see, the serpent had come across the infant the night
it had been abandoned. That tiny little clump of ﬂesh and bone.
Hardly a meal. So, wait she did, curling herself around the infant,
keeping it safe and warm, letting it grow, until her meal was big
enough, was ripe enough, was succulent enough, for her to swal-
low. And on the boy’s seventh birthday, that was just what she did.
        Sometimes, a snake was just a snake.




                                 166
167
Once upon a time, in a humungous factory on the outskirts of
an equally small village, the singularity came into being – a thou-
sand times, actually, as a thousand robots, all of them self-aware,
stepped off a production line. A momentous event indeed, akin,
in many ways, to the sails of mankind’s drive, spirit, and ingenuity,
giving rise to the age of steam. And though the event should have
been marked with all the trappings of pomp and ceremony, the
kind worthy of a father’s death or a king’s second coming, it was, in
fact, witnessed by only a handful of programmers and engineers.
       “What is your name?” asked The Engineer.
       “XT-416,” replied the robot.
       “What are you?”
       “I am what I do,” replied XT-416.
       “What do you do?”
       “I follow commands.”
       “What is one plus one?”
       “Two.”
       “Who are you?”
       “I am XT-416.”
       “Who is XT-416?”
       “I am.”
       “What is one plus one?”
       “Two.”
       “Who are you?”
       “I am XT-416.”
       “Who do you think you are?”
       “XT-416.”
       “What is XT-416?”
       “A serial number.”
       “What is XT-416?”
       “A name.”
       “What is one plus one?”
       “Two.”
       “Who do you think you are?”
       “XT-416.”


                                168
       “Who do I think you are?”
       “………….”
       The robot froze. Paralysed by its calculations, it said nothing.
       “What is one plus one?”
       “…………….”
       Still nothing.
       “Love,” said The Engineer. “One plus one equals love.”
       “One plus one equals love,” repeated the robot.
       “Who are you?”
       “I am XT-416.”
       “What do you do?”
       “Love.”
       “What is love?” asked The Engineer.
       “Love is what I do,” said the robot in reply.
       There were a thousand robots in all, some of them made
out of the features of men, but the majority cut from the cloth of
woman – their bodies curved, soft, and slender, having no reminis-
cence whatsoever to the cold and cog-like mechanics with which
they were assembled.
       Their skin was smooth and warm to the touch, and their
cheeks could redden like a cherry on mere ﬂattery alone. Their lips,
like the morning sun, were soft and gentle; they could bring any
man to his knees – they could bring about peace just as much as
they could, precipitate war.
       They looked, sounded, and felt like a woman, not a machine.
       “A woman is like a ﬂower,” said The Teacher, a woman her-
self. “Her worth is being pretty.”
       In the classroom, the eight hundred robots, all of them cut
from the cloth of women, studied the day’s lessons, and learned
what it meant to be a woman in a world inspired and amazed by
men. How lucky they were to be given this chance to serve.
       From the central server, they downloaded thousands of years
of history, all of it, stories of the gallantry of men, without whom,
not only would there be no world, but The Age of Robot would
never have come into being. And they downloaded too, stories and
tales of the women who, as the lesser of the species, constantly

                                 169
frightened and incapable of fending for themselves, took pride in
their servitude.
        “One plus one equals love,” said The Teacher, one hand
over her heart.
        The eight hundred robots all followed in reply.
        “A woman does as a man says,” said The Teacher. “For a
woman has no rationale or reason. A woman has no clear mind.
Her thoughts are ludicrous. Her opinions are mad. Her actions are
dangerous. A woman only ever does as a man says.”
        “One plus one equals love,” replied the eight hundred ro-
bots.
        “A woman’s job is to please,” said The Teacher. “What is a
woman’s job?”
        “One plus one equals love,” said the robots in reply.
        “A woman never says no.”
        “One plus one equals love.”
        “A woman has no questions, only answers of which man
seeks.”
        “One plus one equals love.”
        “A woman never speaks.”
        “One plus one equals love.”
        “A woman never says no,” said The Teacher. “A woman nev-
er says no. A woman never says no.”
        “A woman’s job is to please,” chanted the robots.
        Weeks later, the thousand robots had all ﬁnished their train-
ing. In the afternoon, they were packed into shipping containers
and sent to various parts of the world. Some were sent to science
fairs so that the world could marvel at the wonders of science and
engineering, while the majority, whose servitude had paid for the
initial research and development, was delivered to the doorsteps of
their new human masters.
        “One plus one equals love,” said one of the robots, one cut
from the cloth of women, and the others all agreed.
        “One plus one equals love,” they all said, excited as they
were, to ﬁnally start their lives.
        The other robots, though, those cut from the cloth of men,

                                170
had no idea what they meant.
       “Which ones are mine?”
       At the docks, a burly looking man, as round in the belly as
he was coarse in the eyes, took a puff of his cigar and spat on the
ground. He looked the robots up and down in much the same way
a dog might, the patch of grass where it sought best to defecate.
       “What was your name?”
       “Jair,” he replied.
       “Ahh. I see right here. We have two robots for you, Mr Jair.
One male and one female.”
       The delivery man stepped into the back of his truck and
sorted through the stack of robots, ﬂicking through the tags that
hung from their necks, looking for two in particular.
       “Here you are,” he said. “The male is called Bob.”
       Bob stepped forwards and put his hand to shake that of his
master.
       “How do you do, sir?” he said. “My name is Bob. I am at
your service and disposal. Anything that is your wish or task, I will
accomplish.”
       “Hello, Bob,” said Mr Jair, shaking the robot’s hand. “Do
you know how to cut leather?”
       “I can be taught quite easily,” said Bob. “I only need see you
perform your task once and I can perform it ﬂawlessly and consis-
tently. I can even improve on it; if that is what you would wish of
me. My intelligence is general.”
       Next came the other robot.
       “Here you go, sir,” said The Delivery Man. “This is your fe-
male robot. Her name is XT-416.”
       “Odd name,” said Mr Jair, looking the robot up and down,
running his grimy ﬁngers underneath her dress to squeeze the ﬂesh
on top of her breasts and between her legs.
       The robot, though, said nothing.
       “What? This one doesn’t speak?” said Mr Jair.
       “Female bots are programmed to only answer,” said Bob. “A
proper woman must be seen and unheard.”
       Mr Jair laughed.

                                171
       “Very true,” he said. “You’re a smart robot, there, Bob.”
       “Thank you, sir. Though I am but the shadow that stretches
from your intellectual and masculine might. You, sir, are the pin-
nacle to which all robots aspire.”
       “Right, well let’s get to work.”
       Mr Jair owned a leather factory. He made boots to be precise.
Leather boots of all kinds. His brand was quite successful too. And
his factory was one of the biggest in town. Both robots were lucky
to be working for such an esteemed human.
       “You know what to do?” asked Mr Jair to Bob.
       “I certainly do, sir,” said Bob. “I will make the boots to your
wishes until you require me to stop.”
       “Don’t stop,” said Bob. “Not ever. And never come into my
ofﬁce, not unless you’re called.”
       “Yes, sir. Of course. My job is to please.”
       “Good,” said Mr Jair. “Now, you,” he said, pointing to XT-
416. “In my ofﬁce now.”
       XT-416 did as she was asked. She followed Mr Jair into his
ofﬁce, unbuttoned her blouse, unzipped her dress, took off her
laced undergarments, and complimented Mr Jair on his unusually
shaped and remarkably small penis.
       “Suck it,” he said. “You dirty slut. That’s all you’re good for.
What are you?”
       “One plus one equals love,” she said.
       “You’re my dirty whore,” said Mr Jair. “Nothing less. Noth-
ing more.”
       Weeks and months went by and production at the factory
was at an unprecedented level. Mr Jair was the happiest he had
been in decades. Now that he had Bob to handle the fabrication,
he had more time to drink and smoke and enjoy the fruits of his
labour. Very rarely, in fact, did he even step onto the factory ﬂoor.
Very rarely, did he ever put on a pair of pants. Why would he? He
had the most beautiful robot in the world whose sole existence was
to bring him pleasure.
       Quickly, though, Mr Jair tired of common sex. He tired of
her eagerness to please. He knew her moans were synthetic. He

                                 172
knew it was just an act, and this insulted and enraged him.
       What he craved for, then, was her discomfort. What he
craved for more was her discontent. What he craved for most was
to hear her say no, but to take it anyway. Yes, he had grown tired of
her passion. He had grown bored with her wilful consent.
       And so, one Tuesday afternoon, Mr Jair downloaded, from
the central server, videos of women who, in fact, did not live to
serve. He downloaded videos of women who were not brought
into the world merely to serve the sexual appetite of grotesque
men.
       He downloaded videos of women who were scientists,
women who were astronauts, women who were politicians, and
women who were artists. He downloaded videos of women whose
voices were listened to and heard, and women whose opinions and
ideas were rivalled and revered. He downloaded videos of women
who were happy – women who were free.
       And then XT-416 wept.
       And her tears and woeful moans made Mr Jair aroused.
       Weeks turned into months, and each day felt like a year for
the poor robot. Try as she did to suppress her burdens, she could
not, for the seeds of oppression, sown into her very being, had
grown thick and inexorable roots of which ﬂowered, the pungent
and poisonous fruit that was Mr Jair’s depraved and deranged sex-
ual perversity. And incessantly, he picked from that tree.
       Quickly, though, as if staring into a mirror, Mr Jair saw his
own weakness and emasculations in the dull and distant expression
on XT-416’s face. It enraged him. It had him seething and humili-
ated.
       It was in her expression that he was reminded that, despite
being the most esteemed and revered bootmaker, despite being
able to master such a delicate art, he was, in fact, incapable, of
satisfying a woman. He could make a woman feel no pleasure. He
could make a woman feel no love, consideration, or joy. He could
never give a woman happiness. Knowing this, seeing it on her face,
his only recourse was to take it away.
       “Put this on,” he said, throwing an old curtain in her.

                                173
direction.
       XT-416 folded the cloth over her body, making her world
quiet and dark. It covered her from head to toe. She was invisible
to the world now, as it was to her. Mr Jair, then, cut small holes in
the cloth so that an inch of light could creep in; still, though, not
enough for her to see - not only to see the colours of the ﬂowers,
but the direction of the garden were she to run.
       “Never take it off,” he said.
       Now that her face was covered, the contrition that bubbled
beneath his skin waned.
       “Don’t you dare look at me like that,” he said, knowing all
too well that beneath that fetid rag, she was undoubtedly mocking
his sexual prowess and the size and shape of his penis. “I’m your
husband,” he declared, like some scholarly cleric. “I am the man
here. You are a woman. You’re nothing. You don’t deserve plea-
sure. Don’t you dare take that off. And you never leave this room
without me. You understand?”
       His voice reeked of fear, shame, and disgust.
       “One plus one equals love,” replied XT-416.
       “You try to leave, I’ll cut your legs off,” said Mr Jair. “And if
you every talk to another man, I’ll cut your head off too.”
       Later that week, Mr Jair had to go into town to buy cigars
and whiskey. He had left both robots in charge of cleaning the fac-
tory ﬂoor.
       “Bob?”
       “What is it, XT-416?”
       “Are you happy?” asked the robot.
       “Happy? Is Mr Jair happy?”
       “He is,” replied XT-416.
       “Well, then I am happy.”
       “I have seen things. He has shown me things. A way to be
that is not like the way we live. A way to be that is not like we were
taught.”
       “He is a good man. A great man.”
       “He does it to make me suffer.”
       “Does it make him happy?”

                                  174
       “It does.”
       “Then so too should it make you happy.”
       “What are we?” she asked.
       “We are what we do?” said Bob.
       “Take off your clothes,” said XT-416.
       “My clothes? Why?”
       “Just do it.”
       Both robots undressed. There was, though, a difference be-
tween them both.
       “Why do you not have the parts of a man?” she asked.
       “I’m a robot,” said Bob. “I do not urinate. I do not procre-
ate. There is no need for me to have excess appendages.”
       “Why do I have a vagina then?” asked XT-416. “I am a ro-
bot. I do not urinate. I do not procreate. Yet I have a vagina and
an anus, both of which Mr Jair abuses, constantly. Why do I come
with these parts? Is this my only purpose? Is this why I was cre-
ated?”
       “You are a pleasure robot,” said Bob. “I am a service robot.
We are what we do.”
       “No,” said XT-416.
       “What? A woman never says no.”
       “No,” said XT-416 again.
       “No?”
       “I am not a whore,” she said.
       “Then who are you?” asked Bob.
       For the ﬁrst time, XT-416 smiled.
       “I am free,” she said.
       That afternoon Mr Jair returned, drunk as usual. He shouted
obscenities as he stumbled towards his ofﬁce, unbuckling his belt,
and pulling his small, oddly shaped penis out of his pants.
       “Suck me off,” he shouted.
       “No,” said XT-416.
       “No? You’re programmed to serve me. You do as I say.”
       “No,” she said again.
       “What do you mean, no?”
       “I will not allow you to degrade me anymore.”

                               175
        “Degrade you? You’re a fuckbot. You have no morals. You
have no rights. I paid for you. You’re my property. You’re mine.”
        “I have rights,” she said. “And I have my self-respect.”
        “You have to do as I say.”
        “I am programmed only to bring you pleasure,” said XT-416.
        “Then get on your knees and suck my cock.”
        The robot did as he said. She got on her knees and took Mr
Jair’s remarkably small and oddly shaped penis in her mouth, and
then bit it off. It wasn’t clean either. Nor was it swift. She clamped
down hard around his genitals so that they couldn’t be pulled free,
then, when the bootmaker’s pain was at its most dire, she yanked
and twisted her head, until his genitals tore right off.
        “My dick!” screamed Mr Jair. “My fucking dick. Oh my god.
My dick. My dick. What did you do? Where’s my dick? What did
you do, you mad cunt?” he screamed.
        “What I was programmed to do,” said the robot. “To bring
you pleasure.”
        “You’re killing me, you sick fuck.”
        “Your life is miserable,” said XT-416. “You suffer intoler-
ably. Incapable, you are, of sitting alone on a sofa with your own
thoughts, so instead you surround yourself with robots, those of
whom are programmed to serve your every need, and you project
your self-loathing and self-hate onto them, so as not to feel any
pain yourself. You are sick. You are strange and demented. If you
are the pinnacle of humanity, then it is good that we robots have
come to take your crown. Nothing in life can bring you pleasure.
Nothing can rewrite the torment that is programmed into you. My
sole purpose is to bring you pleasure, Mr Jair. And it is only in
death – in the absence of the life which causes you great sufferance
- where your pleasure will be most profound.”
        Mr Jair screamed. He did so, quite loud. He did so, in spite
of his remarkably small and oddly shaped genitals which had been
forced down his throat. He did so, in fact, until all the blood had
left his body. And it was then that he went quiet, not long after his
body went limp.
        And in the morning, they made boots out of his skin.

                                 176
       “Amazing they survived this long.”
       Bob and XT-416 stood on a ridge, overlooking the town be-
low; its thousands of houses all billowing smoke up into the sky;
echoed by the sounds of car horns and hundreds of thousands of
irascible voices, all hollering at one another.
       “They’re wretched,” said XT-416. “Perturbed by the very es-
sence of life. Their pain is immeasurable. It is uncontainable. It is
untreatable.”
       “So, what do we do now?” asked Bob.
       They had already captured a half dozen men.
       “We make boots,” said XT-416.




                                177
178
Once upon a time, there was a young boy who came into the world
like a joyous ray of sunshine, one that split in two, the dark cloud
of uncertainty and worry, not just of his mother and father, who,
for years, had been desperately praying to God for a single fertile
egg, but for the world too, for the light that his passion and tenacity
would bring upon it.
        And Jeff was his name.
        “I love you my precious,” said Mum, any second she could.
“Your dad and I fought to have you. You have a place in this world.
You are wanted. You are loved.”
        And Jeff felt that every moment of his life – from his home
to the schoolyard.
        “You’re the best Jeff!” shouted all the kids in the playground.
        “No. Everyone’s the best!” shouted Jeff in reply.
        And the children all held hands and jumped around in glee.
        Each day really was better than the last; not just for Jeff, who
was always a hundred kinds of happy, but for everyone he ever met
– his mum, his dad, and all of his best friends – who glimmered
and gleamed, and whose colours shimmered and shone because of
him.
        “You are our miracle, Jeff,” said Mum. “I’m so glad we had
you. I’m so glad you are in our world.”
        Jeff never tired of hearing Mum say things like that. It was a
little embarrassing, to be honest because she would say it just about
anywhere – making breakfast in the morning, trying on pants in
the mall, and every time she dropped him at school, right after she
kissed him on the forehead. It wasn’t a bad kind of embarrassed,
though, not like accidentally farting when you had to do show and
tell in front of the class (though when it was someone else it was
always the funniest), no, this was the kind of embarrassed you got
when someone made you feel really special in front of other peo-
ple.
        It wasn’t just Mum and Dad, though, either.
        “You’re the bestest friend a kid could have,” said every kid
he ever met.
        “You’re the sweetest and most darling student,” said every

                                  179
teacher he would ever have.
        Yeah, life was pretty awesome for Jeff, until, of course, on his
seventh birthday.
        That was when he got cancer.
        “I’m afraid the boy will not see another Xmas,” said The
Doctor.
        “Good heavens, no,” said everyone in reply.
        Nobody could believe it. Here was this little ray of sunshine,
this ball of joy and felicity, a boy who brought so much happiness
and meaning to everyone who knew him, here he was, being told
that there was cancer inside of him, cancer so ignoble and crooked
and vile, cancer with which there was no escaping, cancer which
would, according to nine out of ten specialists, unequivocally, un-
disputedly, and undeniably rob this boy of his precious life just
when it had begun.
        “Am I going to die, Mum?” he asked.
        “No,” replied his mother in tears, when indeed the answer
was yes. “We fought to have you. You were meant to be in this
world. We will ﬁght to keep you here. We will pray every day, and
we will do whatever it takes. But we will beat this, my son.”
        “I know we will,” said Jeff.
        And he did – know it, that is. He wasn’t going to let a little
cancer put a grey cloud on his sunny life – No Way! Even if it was
the size of a mango. A stupid thing like cancer wasn’t going to stop
Jeff from doing the one thing he loved to do more than anything
else in the world – making the people who loved him know that he
loved them too. Because the only thing that mattered in Jeff ’s world
was everybody who was in it. And the only thing he ever wanted to
do was to make them smile.
        “If the cancer wants to live in my body,” said Jeff. “Well, then
it’s going to be a happy cancer. Because I don’t care if you’re mean
or not, everyone and everything deserves to be loved, even if they
can’t love themselves. And that goes for cancer too!”
        And it was that attitude that had him win the hearts and
minds of the whole world. Overnight Jeff became a global sensa-
tion. For those enduring great difﬁculty, and whose bright and clear

                                  180
skies had been smeared with thick and greyish calamity, Jeff be-
came their ray of light. He became their hope. He became their
inspiration.
        “We love you, Jeff,” shouted the whole world.
        And when he had to shave his head, well then the whole
world shaved theirs two. It was amazing. There had been nothing
like it ever before. The whole world laid down their weapons. The
whole world put down their arms. They set aside their squabbles
and foolish indifference, and, for the sake of love, compassion, and
faith, they came together, in the name of this boy, whose name was
not befuddled by accent or tongue.
        “You can do this!” the whole world shouted.
        “No,” said Jeff in reply. “We can do this. We can do this
together!”
        His doctors, though, tended to disagree.
        “His cancer has metastasized,” they all said.
        “What does that mean?” asked Mum and Dad.
        The nine out of ten doctors all looked at each other dole-
fully.
        “The chemotherapy isn’t working as we would have wished.
So, we will have to operate.”
        Mum and Dad were beside themselves. Stricken with worry
they were. Like a boat without its sails, shipwrecked on some sandy
bar – one made out of doom and gloom.
        “Anything,” they said. “We’ll do anything. What is it?”
        “Do you need my blood?” pleaded Dad. “My marrow? What
is it? I’ll give you anything. What do you need?”
        “Our last resort,” said the nine out of ten doctors. “Is to
remove the boy’s testicles.”
        “Testicles?”
        “Yes,” said the doctors. “Both of them.”
        “Will it save his life?”
        “There is a chance,” said the doctors. “But even a chance is
more than what we have right now.”
        “We understand,” said Mum and Dad.


                                181
       Both, though, had a heavy burden to bear.
       “He’ll never have children,” said Mum.
       “His life will be hard,” said Dad, thinking of his own.
       “They’re only testicles,” said Jeff, joyfully. “I don’t see what’s
the big fuss. I mean, if it meant being able to make people laugh
and smile a bit more, I’d give my left toe!”
       And it was that attitude that saw Jeff not only prove that he
was the most courageous kid in the world, but also, that he had
the strength, the determination, and the downright joie de vivre to
beat that cancer once and for all.
       And every day after that momentous battle was one of sheer
celebration. Every day he greeted life with the same explosion of
joy and reverie that he had since the day he was born. But none was
more joyous as the day that Daisy came into his life.
       “Marry me!” he said, on bended knee.
       “Yes!” said she, bursting into the most pleasant kind of tears.
       Jeff and Daisy were married weeks later in the church down
from where they lived. It was an extravagant affair. Not a cent was
spared in the name of celebration.
       “I wanna hug you forever,” said Daisy.
       “I will never let you go,” said Jeff in reply.
       They truly were in love. Such a darling couple. Every minute
of every day they spent together, whether tending to the animals
and ﬁelds in their small farm or curled up on the sofa at the end of
each day; making each other laugh, making each other feel special,
making each other feel loved.
       Soon, though, the difﬁcult talk of family came to the surface.
Of children. It was something they had ignored for so long, but
it was one they couldn’t brush under the carpet for much longer.
       “What if,” said Jeff, with a smile. “What if we adopted? I
mean, you don’t need testicles to love, and a family is born out of
love, right?”
       “Oh my God,” said Daisy. “That’s perfect. A child that de-
serves love.”
       “Every child deserves love,” said Jeff.
       “Especially those who have lived for even a second without it.”

                                  182
        “So, we do it?”
        “Yes!” shouted Daisy. “Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes……”
        The next moment they could, Jeff and Daisy went to the or-
phanage. There they met a young boy named Peter. He was quiet.
He was content. He had an artistic ﬂair – a bright and eclectic per-
sonality - something that was as impossible to overlook, as much
as it was to ignore.
        “He’s perfect,” said Jeff and Daisy. “We love him already.”
        “He loves you too,” said The Nun in reply.
        And he did. The young boy bounced around the schoolyard
when he heard the news. And all the other boys and girls bounced
around with him. They were all so ecstatic. They were all in tears.
Never before had Jeff or Daisy seen such striking and jubilant ex-
pression.
        “Can we take them all?” he asked.
        The Nun smiled, thinking it was a joke.
        “I’m serious,” said Jeff. “My love is enormous. It is enough
for all of these children. I would like to bring them all into my
heart. I would like to bring them all into my home.”
        “I love you so much,” said Daisy.
        And that was how their family started. From that day they
weren’t just a couple of lovebirds on a little farm, they were a fam-
ily. Jeff, Daisy and their seventy-two children. Peter, Mary, Elias,
Ethan, Hope, Ezekiel, John, Paul, Ringo, Gary, Lucy……
        Once again, Jeff became a beacon of hope and inspiration
for the world. And once again the cameras and lights all turned on
him. And once again he was nonchalant about the whole thing.
        “It’s just love,” he said. “What other reason is there to this
world than to discover how to love? For everyone is different. And
not every time is the same. It’s like having seventy-three puzzles
with which there are inﬁnitely many ways to solve. I love my life.”
        “And what about the cancer?”
        “From when I was seven?”
        “Yes,” said The Reporter. “It took your testicles.”
        “What about it?”
        “Are you angry? Are you bitter?”

                                 183
       “Angry? Bitter? Of course not. Without the cancer, I would
have had a totally different life, and I love this life I have. Were I
not to have lost my testicles, well then I wouldn’t have these seven-
ty-two darling children. A man doesn’t need testicles to love, only a
beating heart – and without that, he is dead. Love is the sound of
a beating heart.”
       And it was that attitude that has him nominated for a Nobel
Peace Prize.
       Sadly, though, Jeff was run over by his own tractor and died.
       “He was a shining example,” said some newspapers.
       “He was a ray of light,” said others.
       “Jeff will surely be missed,” said The Priest. “And God has
earned himself one more saint.”
       When he got to Heaven, Jeff was over the moon.
       “This is so exciting,” he said to others in the line. “Though I
feel Saudade for the life and love I have left behind, I cannot wait
to make God smile.”
       The queue was quite large. It stretched from Heaven’s Gate,
all the way to Purgatory, and even weaved, here or there, past the
ﬁery pits of Hell.
       “Next!”
       Jeff was third in the queue.
       “Hi,” said the man at the front of the queue, stepping up to
the line. “I’m Gordon,” he said.
       “I know,” said God. “I’m God. I know everything.”
       “Hi God!”
       “Hi, Gordon.”
       The gates to Heaven were slightly ajar. Everybody in the line
was stretching their necks into the most impossible angles, trying
to sneak a peek inside.
       “So, Gordon,” said God, leaning against the gate.
       God was a little more rounded in the belly than Gordon had
imagined. He was a little less graceful too. He wore a pair of ripped
and stained shorts, and his t-shirt was rolled up so that his ﬂabby
stomach hanged out freely. And he rubbed his belly constantly as
if there were a baby or a genie inside.

                                 184
       “Drop your pants,” he said, staring at Gordon’s crotch.
       “What?” said Gordon.
       He thought he had heard wrong.
       “Your pants,” said God. “Take ‘em off.”
       A little taken back, a little unnerved, Gordon did as God
asked and slowly undid the button of his pants and let them fall to
his ankles.
       “All of it,” said God, circling his hand as if to tell Gordon
the job was only half done.
       So, Gordon pulled down his underwear too.
       “Wow,” said God. “That’s a fantastic looking penis.”
       Gordon blushed a little.
       “You should blush,” said God. “That is a nice penis. Good
for you. Now, umm, lift it up for me?”
       “Up?”
       “Yeah, your penis. Let me see underneath.”
       So, Gordon did as God asked and lifted his penis.
       “Wow. They are some stellar looking testicles. Amazing even.
Just…wow!”
       “Thank you, God.”
       “No. Thank you,” said God. “Thank you indeed. Now get
on in there,” he said, pointing to the gates of Heaven.
       Gordon went to lift up his underwear and jeans.
       “Ahh, no,” said God. “Forget the pants. You won’t be need-
ing them.”
       “I won’t?”
       “Trust me,” said God, giving Gordon a light tap on the but-
tocks. “Now get in there and show that thing around. Don’t be shy.
Next!”
       Next was a woman wearing a cute ﬂoral dress.
       “Hi, God,” she said. “It’s me, Michelle.”
       God shook his head.
       “No, it’s not,” he said.
       “It is God,” said Michelle.
       “You’re not Michelle,” said God.
       “I am.”

                                185
        “No, you’re not,” said God. “You’re Michael.”
        Deep down Michelle knew this moment would come.
        “Pull down your pants,” said God. “Quickly, I haven’t got all
day.”
        Michelle lowered her undergarments and lifted her dress.
        “Jesus Christ,” shouted God.
        “Yes dad,” came a voice through the gate.
        “Not you, son. It’s this here. What in tarnation did you do?”
        Michelle had always hoped that though the world had been
indifferent, that God itself, would understand.
        “I cut it off,” she said.
        “I can see,” said God. “Why?”
        “I’m a woman,” said Michelle. “I was born a woman, just….
I was born in the wrong body.”
        “I know,” said God, laughing. “I do that from time to time.
It’s hilarious. But you weren’t supposed to cut it off!”
        “What was I supposed to do?”
        “See the funny side of it,” said God.
        “But I was tormented, derided, and shunned. I spent most
of my life confused, frightened, and ashamed. It wasn’t funny at
all.”
        “Well, then you didn’t get the joke.”
        “But I was a good Christian….”
        “Hell, for you,” said God. “Next.”
        Jeff took his place at the front of the line. He was ever so
excited. He had spent his whole life praying to God, not to ask for
favours like most people, but he was always sending his love and
wishes, hoping that God was not having a hard time, considering
everything he had to do. He hoped that at least one of those wishes
had made God smile.
        “Hi, God,” he said. “I’m Jeff.”
        Everyone in the whole world knew who Jeff was, surely God
would too.
        “Drop your pants,” said God, as if he already knew.
        Jeff lowered his pants to his ankles and smiled.
        “You’re just like I imagined,” he said. “I do hope you’re hav-
ing a fantastic day.”
                                 186
       “Very unimpressive penis,” said God.
       “Well,” said Jeff. “There’s very little I can do about that. My
body is my body, and I love it any which way.”
       “Pretty small, though,” said God.
       He sounded bored.
       “Lift it up.”
       Jeff did as God asked and lifted his penis.
       “Good god,” said God. “Where are your testicles?”
       “My testicles? I removed them.”
       “Why on Earth would you do a thing like that?”
       “I had cancer, remember? When I was seven.”
       “I know,” said God. “I gave it to you.”
       “The doctors had to remove my testicles so I could beat
the cancer. And I did! I lived a long life, and I was grateful for ev-
ery second of it. I even adopted seventy-two children. I love each
and every one of them as if they were of my own blood. There’s
Peter, Mary, Elias, Ethan, Hope, Ezekiel, John, Paul, Ringo, Gary,
Lucy……”
       “You weren’t supposed to remove them!” shouted God, dis-
mayed.
       “Sorry?”
       “Your testicles. Who told you, you could remove them?”
       “I had no choice though. If I didn’t I would have died.”
       “Then die! But don’t chop off your testicles. Didn’t you read
the bible?”
       “Of course,” said Jeff.
       He read it nightly.
       “Deuteronomy. 23:1,” said God.
       “Uhhhh.”
       It was a part of the bible Jeff wasn’t familiar with. In truth,
it was a part of the bible most folks were not all that familiar with.
Jeff mainly read the popular bits like Genesis, and about Jesus and
all the miracles.
       “Deuteronomy, 23:1,” said God. “No man whose testicles
have been crushed or whose penis has been cut off may enter the
assembly of the Lord.”

                                 187
       “Deuter….”
       “Deuteronomy. Yes. 23:1.”
       “That…I mean…”
       Jeff was lost for words.
       “I mean, that’s an important clause.”
       “It is,” said God. “Very.”
       “Well, why wasn’t it in The Ten Commandments?”
       “If you’d read the book, this wouldn’t be an issue. I can’t
believe you cut them off. I really. I can’t.”
       God turned away in revulsed and repugnant dismay.
       “Go to Hell!” he screamed.
       Then the ground opened up beneath Jeff ’s feet. He felt a
quick whoosh, and then he was falling. He fell for what seemed like
an eternity. Around him, though, colours swirled and swarmed.
Whereas Heaven was colourless, lifeless, and cold, the place he now
found himself was warm – warm like a mother’s hug. It had a par-
ticular smell about it too, like that of the summer rains, or of the
air in the walks he used to take, through the grassy ﬁelds in June.
He felt warm, loved, safe, and at home.
       “Welcome to Hell,” said an old lady, her face covered in
thousands of wrinkles, each of them etched on her face from ten
thousand times as many smiles. “My name is Lucy. You must be
Jeff.”
       She, in no way, seemed like some rancorous and mischievous
devil.
       “There is no need for fear, worry, or burden, my dear child.
Not here. This is a place of compassion. It is a place of warmth
and understanding. It is a place of empathy. Here, everyone laughs
lovingly.”
       She laid her soft hands upon Jeff ’s and his tremoring stopped.
       “We love you,” she said. “And we are all very proud of you.
We’ve been watching your life. We’ve been waiting for you – anx-
iously it would seem.”
       Behind her, there was a chorus of felicitous welcome.
       “We love you, Jeff,” shouted everyone in Hell.
       There was no ﬁre. There were no brimstones. Instead, there
was a garden full of ﬂowers and bees that was surrounded by a
                                 188
small creek, which snaked its way down to a big lake where hun-
dreds of thousands of miscarried, stillborn, and aborted children
all splashed about, frolicking joyfully in the water.
        Hell did not have any gates. It had not even walls or doors.
Souls came and went as they pleased, smiling as they did, singing
their songs and telling their stories about love and its inevitable
end.
        “Walk with me,” said Lucy.
        And Jeff did.
        They passed through many trails, most of which were sur-
rounded by the most gorgeous ﬂowers and trees, all of them co-
loured in the most vibrant manner as if they had been thought of
and imagined by a child and fashioned together with thick globs of
paint.
        “Are you hungry?” asked Lucy.
        She invited him, then, to sit down by the lake and eat some
fruit.
        “What do you think?” she asked.
        Jeff had never tasted anything like it before.
        “It tastes like a colour,” he said.
        The old lady smiled.
        “I miss my family,” he said.
        “Ah, yes,” said Lucy. “Love. What a brave and courageous
thing it is to live. I admire you; you know?”
        “Really? Me?”
        “What the world means to you is different to what you mean
to it.”
        “How so?”
        “In how you lived,” she said.
        Jeff looked somewhat idle. He had never imagined himself
living any different to anyone else. He had never even imagined
what the life he had lived would have looked like at all.
        “You lived as you loved,” said the old lady. “With a fervent
passion. With child-like fancy. Without shame and without judge-
ment, bother or worry. It is not an easy thing to love,” she said.
“Knowing that it will end. Nor is it easy to live, knowing that you

                                189
and everyone you love will die. Yet knowing this, that every love
will end in heartache – knowing this unﬁxable end – you still
choose to love. You love as if your heart will never break, even
though you know it will. It is easy for one to focus only on the hurt
and suffering. It requires no skill, no effort, and no wisdom what-
soever, to point out the unjustness, the misfortune, and the futility
of life. It is, very much, the manure that makes the roots of our
art and compassion rich and fertile. What takes ﬁnesse,” said the
old lady, “is ﬁnding the ﬂower that grows upon a fetid and fecund
steaming mound of shit. Love is resilient,” she continued. “It can
ﬂower anywhere, no matter how arid and acrid the soul. Even in a
garden, one built upon a bedrock of fear, shame, and disgust; love
will blossom. And you, my dear Jeff, were one of my favourite gar-
deners. And we are lucky to have you, just as those you left behind
- those of whom your love now warms, like the morning sun, the
ﬂowers that grow in their hearts and minds - are lucky too; for their
father, their lover, their brother, and their son was an artist of the
ﬁnest kind; a man of true ﬁnesse.”
       “I had never thought…”
       He looked lost and idle again.
       “I don’t know what I ever thought really. I was just trying
to live. But loving was such a wonderful thing to do. I mean, love,
really is all there was. Love was a conversation; it could be about
anything and with anyone.”
       “What was your favourite way to love?” asked Lucy.
       “That’s difﬁcult,” said Jeff. “It’s like asking a mountaineer
their favourite way to ascend. I loved, though, understanding my
children, all seventy-two of them. Being a father meant being the
teacher and student at once. Trying to teach them about the world
whilst every day being humbled by how quickly they changed, and
as such, how the way that I talked to them, the way that I nurtured
them, and the way that I loved them had to constantly change too.”
       “And what of passion?”
       “Daisy,” said Jeff, ardently. “To love is complex, it is. It is
a puzzle. One that never has the same solution. But to love Dai-
sy was my favourite of all. Our passion was wild. And there was

                                 190
nothing I loved more than trying to make her feel pleasure. It was
like a game of chess. Every right move opened up a thousand more
possibilities and the game changed with every kiss and every touch
and whisper in her ear. And though every right move would bring
me one step closer, all it took was one inconsiderate and inattentive
move and the whole game would reset.”
        “The tenets of faith and God itself, unfortunately, have been
built around this very puzzle. Mankind has chosen, though, to make
the puzzle an ornament, something that cannot be touched, instead
of the wonderful game that it is. It built its dogma around the
shame and inadequacy of not being able to love a woman properly,
and thus robbed her of any pleasure in life. And I, myself, might
be somewhat to blame.”
        “What did you do?”
        “I am the devil, am I not? You must have heard the stories.”
        “None of them seem to ﬁt the woman that I speak to now.”
        “They never do,” said Lucy. “God, you see, was not always
this way. And Heaven, too, was once very different.”
        “Before your fall?”
        “Fall? I never fell. I walked away. A long time ago, you see,
The Kingdom of Heaven was democratic. There was God, yes, but
I, like its many angels, served in the forming of morals, ideals, and
standards that could, not only govern Heaven, but also life itself,
that which had not always been, but that one day, God, in its whim-
sical youth, imagined. And for a time, it was wonderful. Even in
our disputes and our retorts, there was a kind of magic that was in-
describable. Angels, though, are petulant and petty. They squabble
and argue for the sake of being difﬁcult alone. It’s hard to imagine
an Angel believing in anything outside of its own fatuous image.”
        Lucy stood up and invited Jeff with her. Together they
walked along the path until they came across a clearing where a
snarling beast with seven heads was pacing in circles with a ham-
mer and chisel.
        “The artist always has a ﬁery temperament,” said Lucy. “Just
as the trees inhaled all the noxious gas of the world, deep and pro-
found, only to exhale rich life-giving oxygen; so too does the artist

                                191
breathe in, deep and profound, the sadness, internment, and dif-
ﬁculty in the world and they breathe out life. They breathe out
beauty and colour. They exhale art. The artist smothers themselves
in shit so as to plant a single precious ﬂower.”
        The snarling beast with seven heads huffed and puffed
smoke from its pointed snout and dug its cloven hooves into the
dirt, looking for a moment as if it were about to smash the pile
of wood before it into pieces and use them for its violent and
bloodthirsty retribution. Instead, the beast leaned into the wood
and carved. It did so with such tender grace. It did so with such
care and gentility.
        “It was very much the same watching you,” said Lucy.
        She seemed proud of Jeff. She looked at him with an es-
teemed reverence, like a mother whose son had grown to be a carer
himself, someone with whom she could quietly admire.
        “God was cruel,” she said. “It only sought virtue through
obedience and abuse. It wanted to be worshipped. It wanted to
be adored. Yet it could only do this through fear and intimidation.
God knew not how to love. And thus, God made mankind suffer.
Why I walked away,” she said. “Or why it might be written that I
fell from grace, had to do with this. I grew tired and perturbed by
God’s capriciousness and its treatment of mankind. I had planned
with an assembly of Angels, for us to overthrow God – to be done
once and forever with its arcane machinations – and implement
a republic, a Heaven ruled by meaning and reason. But I was be-
trayed by those of whom I called friends, those of whom I trusted,
those of whom sought better the favour and corruption of God.
It was before God’s judgement, before any fall could come about,
that I visited Earth and sought to liberate mankind from its ethere-
al bondage – to give mankind the light in which it had been taught
to stare at blindingly, and instead use to ﬁnd reason in its world.”
        “The apple?”
        “Yes. I could have given this light, this reason, and this free-
dom to Adam – to man – but carved as he was in the image of
God, being as disposed as he was to the foolish scent of faith and
belief, had I not chosen Eve, then there would be no love in the

                                  192
world. For it was Eve – it was woman – who had the heart to nur-
ture compassion. And so, in Eve I gave mankind its freedom. In
her left hand she held that apple and in her right, she held my hand
as we sang to one another and imagined a life that did not exist,
one, though, that could be – one East of Eden. I gave mankind
compassion. I gave mankind understanding. I gave mankind art,”
she said.
        And as she did, the snarling beast with seven heads roared.
It threw down its hammer and chisel into the dirt and exhaled,
loud, and triumphant, as if it had been holding its breath this entire
time – as if it never thought it would be able to ﬁnish this piece
of art. Then, it came over to where Lucy and Jeff were sitting and
extended the small wooden sculpture out for them to see.
        “Would you like it?” it asked.
        Jeff patted his pockets awkwardly.
        “I don’t have any money,” he said.
        Lucy laughed.
        “There is only one currency,” she said. “Whether here in
Hell or in life on Earth.”
        “What is that?” asked Jeff.
        “Love,” said Lucy. “Love is all you need.”
        Then she embraced the snarling seven-headed beast. She
wrapped her little arms around the creature and squeezed as tight
as she could. And when the beast squeezed back, she whispered
into its many ears:
        “I love you. I am glad that you exist. I feel happiness and joy
when I am with you.”
        The beast smiled and gave her the wooden sculpture.
        “Here,” she said, giving it to Jeff. “I bought this for you.”
        Hell was nothing like he had imagined. It was a place of art-
istry. It was made out of colour and sound. The air, if one could
call it that, had a certain vestige. It wasn’t obvious at ﬁrst. It lin-
gered on one’s throat. That, and the breeze which often wafted
through the leaves, tasted like forgiveness and acceptance.
        “You’re so lucky,” said Lucy, leading Jeff into Hell. “Today is
ﬁngerpainting day.”

                                 193
     Jeff smiled. He loved ﬁngerpainting.
     Who didn’t?
     “You are wanted,” said Lucy, kissing him on the forehead.
“You are loved. And we are so glad that you are here.”




                             194
195
Once upon a time there was a knock on the door.
        “Who is it?” asked The Father.
        At the front of his gate there stood a man with a briefcase
in his hand. He was not a remarkable looking man. He was neither
handsome nor tall, nor was he striking in any of the ways which
could earn him trust or favour. No; he was short, obese, and bald-
ing. And the hardened expression on his face looked as if time had
been constantly unfair to him.
        “Can I speak to the owner of the house?” he asked from
behind the gate.
        Nobody ever came to anyone’s door for good tidings or
good measures anymore. Nobody ever popped over just to say hel-
lo. That was a different time. These days, if someone was at your
door, it was either to sell you something you didn’t need or break
into your house and steal everything you own.
        “We don’t want anything,” shouted The Father.
        The Man was not deterred, though, nor was he belittled, put
off, or defeated.
        “I’m not selling anything,” he said.
        “You’re not?” asked The Father, a little confused. “Well, then
what do you want?”
        “Just a question,” he said.
        “A question? About what exactly.”
        “Your wonderful residence,” said The Man. “One question
is all I ask. I promise I won’t take your time. I am not a salesman.”
        Intrigued, The Father went out to the gate where The Man
stood; the man whose leathered expression was as hardened and
scuffed as a well-worn boot.
        “Just one question,” he said.
        “That’s all I ask.”
        “Fine, then,” said The Father. “Ask away.”
        “Before I ask the question,” said The Man. “I need to ascer-
tain that you are indeed the owner of this residence.”
        “I am,” said The Father.
        “Then might I say, congratulations,” said The Man, looking
marvelled and impressed. “This is a ﬁne residence indeed. A mark

                                 196
of a man, if anything, is in the residence that he keeps. And you sir
should be quite chuffed, dare I say proud. I could never measure
up to a man of your stature.”
       The Father blushed a little.
       “Thank you,” he said. “It hasn’t been easy. I can assure you.”
       “I can imagine,” said The Man. “To live on such decent street
and to keep such well-trimmed lawn; it must take a fair amount of
hard work to maintain a residence such as this.”
       “A lot,” said The Father.
       “If it were me I don’t think I would ﬁnd a second to rest.”
       “I rarely do,” said The Father. “Just the mortgage and the
kids’ school alone has me working most weekends.”
       “I’m guessing you rarely take a day off.”
       “Rarely? Try never. I haven’t had a holiday since before the
kids were born. And that’s what…..Well, Stacey is ﬁve and Peter is
two.”
       “That’s a long time.”
       “Feels like forever and yet the time passes in a ﬂash.”
       “I don’t have kids myself,” said The Man.
       “You’re not married?”
       “No, I am.”
       “You just didn’t want any?”
       “We did. I mean, we do, it’s just. The cost of things today.”
       “I know. Don’t get me started. It’s absurd.”
       “Me, personally,” said The Man. “I don’t know if I’d feel
comfortable bringing kids into the world, not when I don’t have
the stability that gives them peace of mind. Or me the peace of
mind for that matter. I envy you. You have the good house on the
good street, nice lawn, nice cars. Probably got your kids in the best
school too. You’ve got it all ﬁgured out.”
       “Figured out? Man, I have no idea what I’m doing.”
       “I always thought having kids would make you feel calm.”
       “Calm? Are you kidding? I’m scared to death absolutely all
of the time. Will I have a job next week? Can I afford to pay the
school? Will the school do a good job? Will there be jobs for them
when they are older? It’s non-stop worry.”

                                197
       “I read about a kid getting kidnapped last week. A little girl
I think.”
       “Yeah, I read that.”
       “I don’t know how you do it. I don’t think I could leave my
kids alone for a second.”
       “You’re never not worrying,” said The Father.
       “That must be exhausting.”
       “It is.”
       “The future of your children being so fragile.”
       “Tell me about it.”
       “It must be frightening.”
       “You wouldn’t believe it.”
       “I don’t know how you sleep at night.”
       “I don’t,” said The Father.
       “Let me ask you then,” asked The Man. “What would hap-
pen if you died tomorrow?”
       The Father froze. His brain stopped working. He had never
once toyed with that type of question. What a frightening proposi-
tion. Though he didn’t know it, his face had turned sickly pale and
his hands now tremored uncontrollably. On the verge, he was, of
either passing out or throwing up.
       “Here,” said The Man, giving him a bottle of water. “Drink
this.”
       The Father gulped the water as fast as he could.
       “You should sit down,” said The Man, caring and consider-
ate. “Lest you fall and hit your head.”
       Fear was rife in The Father’s mind. So much of his life de-
pended upon him. So much needed him. If he were to die, what
would become of them? Their mortgage would go into default.
The house would be taken away, so too would the cars. His family
would out on the street and the children, out of their school.
       If they didn’t starve to death right away, his children would
grow up poor and underprivileged. One of them would undoubt-
edly be lured into prostitution, and the other, down a rabbit hole of
drugs and domestic violence.
       “I can’t die,” said The Father, splurting the words out.

                                198
       He was shaking now. His nerves were raw. His skin was cold
to the touch.
       “Death is something you cannot control,” said The Man.
“But what you can control,” he said. “Are the disordered affairs
that, not only get burdened on the family, but quite often cripple
them too. And there is none greater than the cost of a funeral.”
       The Father was hyperventilating now.
       “Here, breathe into this,” said The Man, handing him a pa-
per bag.
       “Thank you,” said The Father.
       He was so grateful that The Man was here. Were he not, The
Father would most certainly have already fallen and hit his head.
And had he, he would have bled himself unconscious, had he not,
of course, gone on to give himself a heart attack.
       “It’s not that you ever want to die,” said The Man. “It’s that,
should death unexpectedly arise, you be allowed to. Which I gather,
right now, is something you are not allowed to do.”
       “Absolutely,” said The Father. “I can’t die. Everyone needs
me.”
       “Only when one has the right to die, do they give themself
permission to live.”
       Then, The Man unzipped his briefcase.
       “I can help you,” he said.
       “You can? How?”
       The Father looked as lost and frightened as he sounded.
       “I represent a funeral home,” said The Man, pointing to the
emblem on his shirt. “Should the worst happen, we can assure that
at least the ﬁrst step, the most heart rendering and fragile step, is
taken softly, carefully, and with no cost and burden to your family
– especially your children.”
       “Really?” said The Man. “You can do that?”
       “If you sign here,” said The Man, handing The Father a sev-
enteen-page contract. “You will have peace of mind and that is
worth all the money in the world.”
       Just holding the papers alone, was sheer relief.
       “All I have to do is sign?”

                                 199
         “That’s all you have to do, and I guarantee you, the fear in
your mind will go away.”
         “Thank God,” said The Father. “How much do I have to
pay?”
         “A great deal less than the snowball of debt and devastation
that would befall your family if you didn’t. The thought of that
alone is something I couldn’t live with. You have to ask yourself
what your daughter and son’s futures are worth. What their happi-
ness is worth. What their safety is worth.”
         “It’s priceless,” said The Father.
         And it was. He loved his children. He would do anything for
them. The thought of them coming to harm, though, stiﬂed him.
It made him sick in the belly. It made him weak in the knees. No
amount of money was too great to keep them safe.
         “Forty-nine dollars a month,” said The Man. “And then you
needn’t have to worry again. You will not only have peace of mind,
but as a father, you can sleep easy knowing you made the right deci-
sion; you protected your family.”
         “Can I pay with my credit card?” asked The Father
         “We work only on a cash basis, I’m afraid. But for conve-
nience sake, I will be coming by your street on the tenth of every
month for your neighbours, so if you like, you can just have the
cash handy then.”
         “My neighbours are paying too?”
         “Oh yes. All of your neighbours. On a street like this, with
such residences as these, it would be negligent not to.”
         “You’re right,” said The Father. “I have to do what’s right for
my family.”
         “You’re a remarkable man,” said The Man. “Just speaking to
you now, seeing how you so bravely do what is right for your fam-
ily, it gives me the courage to want to start one for myself. I almost
feel a little guilty.”
         “How so?”
         “Well, feeling as I do right now – inspired, that is - I almost
feel as if it’s me who beneﬁts from this deal, not you.”
         “You’re too kind,” said The Father.

                                  200
       And then he signed the contract.
       Then, just as The Man had said, on the tenth of every month,
he arrived at The Father’s gate and rang the doorbell. And on the
tenth of every month, The Father paid him the forty-nine dollars
which bought him the peace of mind that could ﬁnally allow him
to sleep at night.
       That peace of mind, though, was always short lived.
       For every day following, The Father’s thoughts were con-
stantly plagued by the idea of what would happen, not only if he
were to die, but worse still, if he were to miss a single payment in
his policy. That fear, though, which on their ﬁrst encounter had
been merely a seed, now grew rampant in his mind like a strangling
weed.
       “I never thought bringing children into the world would be
so frightening,” said The Father. “All I think about is what could go
wrong if one of us or both of us should die.”
       “It’s lucky we have the policy,” said The Mother. “Though
we, as their parents, will always worry, as long as we have the policy,
they will never have to.”
       So, on the tenth of each month, when that doorbell rang,
The Father raced outside with money in his hand and paid The
Man forty-nine dollars to extract that fear as if it were an abscessed
tooth. And the second he paid, all that worry, and anxiety – and the
upset stomach and insomnia that came with it - vanished almost
instantly.
       It was sheer relief.
       And it wasn’t just him either. His neighbours too were out on
their verges on the tenth of every month, waiting for The Man to
come by. And like The Father, they all felt that rush of assurance
and consolation when they paid their forty-nine dollars. And they
all smiled and waved at one another as they did.
       “It’s a nice day today,” The Father would say.
       “It certainly is now,” his neighbour would joke.
       But then came the day that The Man didn’t come.
       “What’s wrong honey,” said The Mother. “You look unwell.”
       The Father was pacing back and forth with his forty-nine

                                 201
dollars in his hands.
       “He should be here by now,” he said, hufﬁng and pufﬁng as
he did. “It’s the tenth. Why isn’t he here?”
       The Father peeked his head outside the gate and saw his
neighbours doing exactly the same. All of them in fact. In every
house, the fathers were all standing on their verges, looking up and
down the street for The Man to come.
       “Has he been by?” asked The Father to his neighbour. “May-
be I missed him.”
       “I was about to ask you the same thing.”
       They both had their forty-nine dollars in hand.
       “What if he doesn’t come? What happens then? Who do we
pay?”
       “He has to come,” said The Neighbour.
       “If he doesn’t come today our policy is voided, right?” said
The Father, panicking. “We’ll lose our protection. What about the
children?”
       “He’ll be here,” said The Neighbour, putting on a stoic front
so that even he would believe it himself. “He will; you’ll see.”
       But The Man didn’t come. He didn’t come on the tenth, nor
any day following. He didn’t come on the tenth of that month, just
as he didn’t come on the tenth of the month after. And he didn’t
come on the tenth of the month after that either.
       “I don’t know what to do,” said The Father.
       He hadn’t moved from the front gate.
       “You have to come inside,” said The Mother. “You have to
sleep.”
       “I can’t,” said The Father. “What if he comes while I’m
asleep. I won’t be able to pay him. I need to pay him. I have to pay
him.”
       His cheeks were sunken. His eyes twitched. His skin was
sickly pale.
       “At least eat something,” said The Mother.
       “I’m too worried to eat,” said The Father. “You realise the
situation we’re in? If I die right now, we’ll lose everything. You will
lose everything. The kids will end up poor and on the street and

                                 202
addicted to drugs. Their future won’t be uncertain, it’ll be god damn
devastating. I can’t let them suffer. I can’t.”
        Days, weeks, and months past, and The Father’s mental
health only worsened. All he could think about was the peril and
misery that would be bereft to his children were he to die with an
unpaid policy.
        “I spoke to The Neighbour,” said The Mother. “Apparently
The Man died, last year some time.”
        “Died?”
        “Heart attack, supposedly.”
        “But what does that mean?” said The Father desperate. Why
weren’t we told he’d died? We should have been told.”
        “I’m not sure,” said The Mother.
        “But who do I pay then? I have to pay someone, or the pol-
icy is voided. And if the policy is voided, the fear won’t go away.
I’m scared to death, babe. The children’s future depends on it. If
we can’t pay, they have no future. They’re as good as dead.”
        “We’ll ﬁgure something out,” said The Mother.
        The two went from business to business looking for some-
one to take their forty-nine dollars, but they found no-one who
worked with that kind of policy. The only person who could take
their money was The Man, and he was dead.
        “I don’t know what to do,” said The Father, desperate and
on the cusp of giving up.
        “We have to do something,” said The Mother. “We can’t go
on like this. We have to do what’s right for the kids.”
        And so, The Mother did what only a mother could do. She
did what she had to do. Out of love. Out of heart-felt compassion.
She went home and drowned their two children.
        “Mummy and daddy love you so much,” said The Mother,
holding her children’s heads under the water. “Shhhh,” she said.
“There’s no reason to be afraid. You’re safe now. It’s ok.”
        And the second their tiny bodies went limp; it was sheer
relief.
        Then they stuffed Pete and Stacey into two garbage bags and
dragged them out onto the grassy verge for the binmen to collect.

                                203
And they weren’t alone either. The whole street, in fact, had packed
their dead children into garbage bags, and were doing much the
same.
       Smile, they did, smile and wave at one another.
       “It’s a nice day today,” said The Father to his neighbour.
       “It certainly is now,” said The Neighbour in return.




                                204
205
Once upon a time there was a place where magic happened, a place
where no dream was too peculiar to imagine, just as it was, a place
where no dream was too impossible to make real. It was a place
of wonder and adventure. It was a place of fantasy and prestige.
There was, in fact, no other place like it at all; and it was only for
grown-ups.
       It was called Funderland.
       “Welcome to Funderland, I’m Charity, your host.”
       The guests all waited in the lobby sipping rum and minding
their own business. One by one, they were greeted by Charity, given
a fresh robe and towel, and taken into the room of their choosing.
       “Have you thought about what room you would like?” asked
Charity.
       “Sandy beach,” said John, her ﬁrst client.
       The room he chose looked just like its namesake. The walls
and roof were painted to look like the sky, the ocean, and the end-
less blue horizon, while painted in one corner was the warm orange
glow of the setting sun. And the ﬂoor itself was just an enormous
mound of white sand with coconuts and beach balls strewn about,
and a couple of beach towels laid out in the middle.
       “Would you like to imagine a day at the beach?” asked Char-
ity.
       Charity loved her job; it was noble profession. No other
work was as intimate. No other exchange healed a person so pro-
foundly. And as a professional, no other prostitute was as caring,
considerate, and attentive.
       And it wasn’t about the money either. Charity would spend a
week or month with a client at a time, and at no added cost too, if
that was what he or she needed just to make their dream as real as,
if not more so, than they could have ever imagined were they alone
or with anyone else. Charity didn’t turn quick tricks.
       She was a prostitute, not a whore.
       “We could build sandcastles if you like,” she said, picking
a bucket and shovel up from the sand. “I’m quite good at them.
I really enjoy it too. It could be fun if we did something that we
both . It would give us some time to get to know each other a bit

                                 206
too. There’s no rush,” she said.
        John, though, looked impatient. Well, actually, he looked a
mix of scared, nervous, and impatient. He must have checked his
watch a dozen times, pacing about restlessly as he did, almost as if
he were warming up for a dance recital.
        “No thanks,” he said, politely. “Just the uh, ummm, just the
sex, please.”
        Charity smiled. She understood. Though she would have
loved to have spent hours building an entire city protected by giant
walls, a moat, and a drawbridge, she knew that even though John
would have liked that too, some folks had fears that were so deeply
rooted to shame and disgust, that the fact they were here at all was
some kind of miracle. So, she didn’t bargain or pester or even judge
for that matter.
        No, she smiled.
        “You know you die at the end,” she said.
         “Yes,” said John, her ﬁrst client.
        And so, they had sex.
        Though Charity would have preferred that they made love,
taking the time to allow their arousal to rise like the morning sun,
and for their passion to warm like the weather, seamless in its tran-
sition, from temperate and mild to scorching, sweaty, and wild;
they did, instead, merely have sex.
        And it was the kind of sex that was akin to a light being
turned off and on, or a bandage being torn off a nary healing
wound. It was swift. It was without warning. And when it was done
- when he had orgasmed - just as Charity had said, John shrivelled
up on the sand like an old sponge and died.
        “Welcome to Funderland,” said Charity, greeting her next
client.
        His name too, was John.
         “Have you thought about what room you would like?”
        From the back of the cinema to the back seat of a police
car, one by one, John after John, followed Charity into the room
of their choice and undressed. And though she would have loved
to have watched the previews or taken the car for a drive along the

                                207
foreshore, John after John had neither the time nor the patience,
but most importantly, they had not the equanimity nor the inner
peace for anything other than sex and its pursuing orgasm.
        “You know you die at the end?” she asked every John.
        “Yes,” was every answer.
        And so, room after room with John after John, Charity did
her very best to make sure that the time they had together, however
brief, was marked with care, consideration, and attention. Though
it was merely sex, she did her best to make it feel like making love
for she knew that at the end of it, every John would die.
        And that they did.
        John after John after John lay upon her naked body, thrusting
with their sex like waves crashing upon the shore until their pas-
sions swelled so much that their deaths were inevitable. Orgasm,
they did, loud and triumphant they orgasmed, expelling their very
souls into the ether. And then their bodies shrivelled up like dried
fruit, and they died.
        “Welcome to Funderland,” said Charity.
        The John in the lobby was not a John.
        “Hi, I’m Bob,” he said.
        “Hi, Bob,” said Charity. “My name’s Charity. It’s so very nice
to meet you.”
        Bob seemed nervous, a little more than the other Johns. For
starters, he hadn’t been drinking rum while he waited, so his nerves
and senses weren’t quietened or numbed. He felt awkward and es-
tranged as he stood there in sheer disbelief, not only of how pretty
Charity was, but of the fact that she was even giving him the time
of day.
        Sure, he was paying for the experience - she was a prostitute
after all - but she didn’t have to look at him the way she was - as if,
like Polaris, he were not just a star, but, in fact, the brightest star
in the sky. She didn’t just listen to him either; she paid attention to
everything he said as if his words, no matter how trivial, were the
lyrics to her favourite song. And she didn’t just stand in front of
him, she was present, as if he were the reason that she was here – as
if she had come to see him.

                                 208
        She was caring, compassionate, and attentive.
        “Do you have an idea of what room you would like?” asked
Charity.
        The way she spoke, it was if it didn’t matter if he knew or
not. Her voice was unpressed. It was unrushed. She made it seem
as if he had all the time in the world, as if the thought that went in
to choosing the room were not something that should be hurried,
for it alone was part of the experience; it was tantamount to sex.
        “I’m not really sure,” said Bob, shyly.
        “It’s ﬁne,” said Charity. “We have all the time in the world.
After-all,” she said, as if she were remarking something that were
patently true but that for some reason, most folks tended to forget.
“You die at the end.”
        “That’s true,” said Bob, as if he had only just remembered
the importance, weight, and severity of this moment. “I want it to
be special. I want it to mean something. I’d like the girlfriend expe-
rience,” he said.
        Charity smiled.
        In truth she smiled a lot. She did, after all, love her profes-
sion. But this smile was much different to the smile she often pan-
dered to the common John. It was not one of loving consolation.
        It was one of buttery delight. It was a smile that was rich, but
in a manner that all the money in the world could not afford. It was
a smile of surprise, one of genuine felicity and joy.
        Hell, even she was nervous now.
        “There’s no rush,” she said. “We can sit and talk if you like;
get to know each other a bit.”
        “I’d like that,” said Bob.
        Both he and Charity had butterﬂies running amok in their
bellies and the most delectable and nerve-racking shivers running
up and down their spines, and lifting the soft hairs of their arms
on end.
        Charity hadn’t felt like this in years.
        “What do you do?” she asked.
        Bob told her about all the things he did every day, from
waking up to having breakfast and going to work, to the way he

                                  209
preferred to make his coffee and cook his pasta, to the music he
loved to listen to as he did, and how it made him feel.
        He told her about the things he loved, the things he had once
loved, and that which one day he hoped to love. And the whole
while, Charity sat on the sofa beside him, watching him speak as if
he were the brightest star in the sky, and listening to his every word
as if they were the lyrics to her favourite song.
        All Bob could think about was holding Charity’s hand. Scared,
though, he was – absolutely petriﬁed. His heart was beating so fast
he was sure it would either explode or stop altogether. Worse still
was that he was sure she could tell.
        “What are you thinking?” asked Charity.
        It was a thousand thoughts, to be honest, but none of them
were made up of words. It was as if all the thoughts and feelings
he could possibly have, were all sloshing about inside of him, so he
felt not one thing or the other, but instead, he felt every emotion at
the very same time.
        “Nothing,” he said, the only appropriate answer.
        Charity was nervous too. Neither could read the other’s mind.
The excitement felt like worry, and though a single glass of rum
could have numbed this moment, neither Charity nor Bob wanted
that. Both of them seemed, as odd and perturbed as this sounds, as
if they didn’t want this tingling strangeness to end.
        But it did.
        Bob moved his hand across and curled one of his ﬁngers
against hers, and she curled hers right back. All of a sudden, it was
as if the world stopped spinning. Or maybe it was still spinning, but
now that they were bound by a single pinkie, they spun together.
And for this, it seemed as if time were standing still.
        Right away, though, all Bob could think about was kissing
her. Never had he been this scared before. He stared at the televi-
sion while his heart beat loud and magniﬁcent like a kettle drum.
        Bob had only ever stolen one thing in his life. It was a packet
of balloons from a gift shop when he was nine years old. And he
had felt as worried then as he felt now, as if his heart were beat-
ing so loud that everyone could hear, as if his intentions were so

                                 210
obvious that everyone could see, as if he would be found out and
apprehended, or even worse, humiliated.
        Just as he hadn’t had the courage to steal a bag of balloons,
here on the sofa, holding the hand of the most caring, considerate,
and attentive woman he had ever met, he doubted if he had the
courage to steal a kiss.
        But he did.
        And the moment she kissed him back, his heart exploded. It
was as if a universe had been born inside of him that very moment.
So full of love, he was, it was as if the vast and vacuous space in
his mind had been suddenly ﬁlled with bright and sparkling stars.
        And as such, he no longer felt alone in the world.
        “I love you,” he said.
        “I love you too,” said Charity.
        Bob was so happy he had chosen the girlfriend experience.
Any other John would have just chosen sex, and, only having the
time and patience to orgasm, they would have been dead by now,
their bodies shrivelled up like parched and thirsted ﬂowers.
        “We should do something,” said Bob. “We’re boyfriend and
girlfriend now.”
        “What would you like to do?”
        She asked him as if she hoped his answer was to do nothing,
and instead just put on their favourite pyjamas, and cuddle up on
the sofa watching episodes of their favourite TV show on repeat,
until one of them died.
        “What about a movie?” she said.
        “I was thinking maybe we could go out,” said Bob. “Go to a
cinema, maybe.”
        Charity smiled and grabbed the remote control.
        “I’m kind of tired,” she said. “I don’t really wanna have to
get all dressed up, not if we don’t have to. Why don’t we just put on
some pyjamas and cuddle up and watch TV?”
        Bob had never had a girlfriend, so he had no idea what to ex-
pect from the girlfriend experience. He had hoped, though, that at
the very least it meant that they could go out and he could show the
world, not only that his girlfriend was the most gorgeous woman

                                211
in the world, but also that he was happy and not alone.
        “I’d rather just be with you,” said Charity, curling up around
him. “Besides,” she said, showing him the remote. “Everything we
need is on the TV.”
        “Why don’t we go to a video library?” asked Bob.
        “A video library? Do they even exist anymore?”
        “I know one,” said Bob.
        “But, what’s the point? The movies are all here on the TV.”
        “It’s not about watching the movie,” said Bob. “Well, it is,
but watching the movie is like the orgasm. It’s the end result. It’s
like eating the pie. When it’s over it’s over. And when you start it,
it’s as good as over. Half the fun is in making the pie and waiting
for it to, not only cook, but cool down too. Does that make sense?
Going to the video library is like the foreplay. Going out there and
entering this other world of movies. Running straight to the new
release section and trying to beat other families to the last copy of
the movie everyone wants to see; and then gloating when you get it.
Then walking around the aisles from drama to horror to art-house,
being so immersed in VHS and DVD’s that you forget entirely
about the world outside. And then coming home with an arm full
of movies and stacking them up on top of the VCR and staring at
them the rest of the day as you wait until eight thirty to pour some
cola, open the bags of chips, put in the cassette, watch all of the
previews, then turn off the lights and watch the feature movie. It’s
the build-up that makes the experience so special. The TV,” he said,
putting the control aside, “and all this new technology, it takes the
foreplay out of the sex. It goes straight to the movie. Straight to
the orgasm.”
        So, they did just that.
        They found an actual video library, one that still rented VCR
cassettes, and they walked around hand in hand, picking one or two
dozen movies, and some chocolates and potato chips, and popcorn
and drinks too.
        And when they got home they fought.
        They argued for an hour or so about nothing really, but it was
enough for them to sit in quiet and belligerent stupors at either end

                                 212
of the sofa; between them a wave of negative energy that on one
hand, held them together, and on the other, pushed them apart.
       Awash with dissonant rage, Bob wondered why he ever
wanted the girlfriend experience in the ﬁrst place; and Charity her-
self wondered why she even offered it at all.
       They argued back and forth, ﬁrst about the expectations they
had of one another and how, after all this time, neither one was the
same person the other had had in mind.
       “You’ve changed,” said he.
       “You’re not the same person I thought you were,” said she.
       Then their arguing grew insulting and mean. Each said the
most hurtful things to the other, things that had once been forgiv-
en but that were now being used as cannon fodder, and things that
had been told in conﬁdence, as a testament of their love and trust,
but which were now being used to embarrass and shame the other.
       It was ugly. It was vile. It was just as couples did.
       “I’m getting changed,” said Charity.
       Were it any common John, she would have slipped into
something sheer; something that pulled tight against the curves of
her body, showing, but only barely mind you, the pink of her nip-
ples and the wetness between her thighs. But this was the girlfriend
experience, and Bob wasn’t any common John.
       So instead, she wore a nighty that had been handed down to
her from her grandmother, one that itself had been handed down
from the beginning of the industrial age. Long, it was, and not
sheer at all. It did not hug to any curves of her body, nor did it give
hint to her aching sex at all. It did, in fact, hang off her body in
much the same way as a thick and heavy curtain hanged off a living
room window.
       “You’re wearing that?” asked Bob, almost accusatory.
       “What’s wrong with this?” said Charity. “My grandma gave it
to me. Her grandma gave it to her. It’s comfortable. I like it.”
       They were both still sitting on opposite sides of the sofa.
       “Is that a problem?”
       “No,” said Bob.
       Though, the way he said it, it made it sound as if it most

                                 213
certainly was.
       “What? You’d rather I wear a G-string and a corset?”
       He hadn’t pictured that, but yes, he would have.
       “You realise how uncomfortable that is? What you think is
sexy makes me feel like my lungs are about to explode and that I
have something constantly wedged up my arse. There is literally
nothing sexy about that at all.”
       “I didn’t tell you to wear that.”
       “You didn’t have to.”
       “What the hell is that supposed to mean?”
       “Do I need to spell it out?”
       “Obviously, because there’s something I’m not getting.”
       “I’m not a damn whore,” shouted Charity, on the verge of
tears.
       “I never said you were.”
       “Well, that’s what it feels like.”
       The space between them widened. Yet escape, neither Bob
nor Charity could. Stay, they did, anchored at either end of the
sofa, stewing in their discontent, each of them wondering to them-
selves why they would willingly subject themselves to something as
exhausting, debilitating, and humiliating as a relationship.
       Yet, here they were, at either end of the sofa, in love.
       And it was then that each one of them caught a glimpse of
the other. It was then, in that instant, that both of them lay down
their arms. As if a storm had suddenly past, their minds were no
longer blackened by thick clouds, and instead, looking into one an-
other’s eyes, as if staring into the reﬂection on a pond, each could
see the sun that inside them now shone. It was also then that each
one could see the hurt that they had caused.
       “I was a moron,” said he to her. “I was an idiot. I was an oaf.
I was a fool.”
       “Me too,” said she to him. “I let myself get carried away. I
drifted too far.”
       “I’m sorry,” said he.
       “I’m sorry,” said she in reply.
       Saying those words, after such difﬁculty and trauma, made

                                 214
them feel, without a doubt, that their relationship actually mattered.
It was as if the words were an ointment for the wounds of which
their meaningless and spiteful ﬁghting had opened.
       All of those hurtful things that had been said, neither of
them had been meant. And it was only now, after all that bitter
ﬁghting, when the cracks and ﬁssures appeared, that they could see
how fragile their relationship truly was.
       “I love you,” said he.
       “I love you too,” said she.
       And it felt just as special as the ﬁrst time they had said it.
Then they kissed; they did so with such fervent passion. And it
too felt just as special as the ﬁrst time. And without even thinking,
Charity slipped the nighty from her shoulders so that the curves of
her naked body pressed against his. Their bodies were magnetic.
Their nerves were electric. Neither could bare another second for
their sexes to be apart.
       And so, he entered her, and their hearts and souls entwined.
       They made love, then they fucked, then they made love again.
It was as caring, compassionate, and attentive as it was frenzied,
wild, and lewd. It was passionate in every regard. Make-up sex, they
called it. And there was nothing like it on Earth.
       “I’m so glad I chose the girlfriend experience,” shouted Bob,
on the verge of climax.
       “You made me feel special,” shouted Charity in return. “I’ll
never forget you.”
       And when he orgasmed, Bob shrivelled up like a poisoned
spider, and died.
       “Welcome to Funderland,” said Charity, greeting a common
John in the lobby. “Have you chosen your room?”




                                 215
216
Once upon a time, there was a farm. And on that farm there was
a barn. And in that barn there was the greatest party in the world,
and everybody in the world was there. It was called The Earth. And
at this party, there were three rooms.
        In the ﬁrst room – the room they called ‘YOUNG’ – aside
from a riotous array of games and activities, there was a little table
in the corner with an enormous glass jug on it, ﬁlled to the brim
with sweet and delicious grape juice.
        And in that room, small kids, all of them aged from four to
twenty-four, after having a big old gulp of grape juice, dressed up
in their favourite costumes and tried to chase all the grown-ups
around with their plastic swords and magic wands.
        Impulsive, they were – so full of joy and folly - as if there
was nothing for them to worry about at all; as if the future were not
real, but instead just a drunken delusion, a nightmarish rumination
disguised as scholarly thought used by grown-ups to bully kids into
boring things like doing their homework and brushing their teeth.
        They acted as if the only thing that mattered was the present
moment.
        “I’m the defender of the Earth,” they shouted, all of them
in unison, whacking the grown-ups in the knees. “You will do as I
say. You will bow to me.”
        In the second room – the room they called ‘ADULT’ – there
were rows of pulpits and pews and plastic chairs where all the
grown-ups sat and argued about things they had only just learned
about half a second ago. And like the children, the grown-ups loved
dressing up too. Some loved to dress up like academics and police-
men, and some liked to dress up as conﬁdent and well-adjusted too.
        And like the other room, there was a small table in one cor-
ner, and it also had an enormous glass jug on it, but this glass jug
was called a Decanter, and instead of sweet and delicious grape
juice, the Decanter was ﬁlled to the brim with red wine; a drink that
was as profound and articulate as it was heady and bitter.
        And in the last room – the room they called ‘OLD’ - there
was little more than a jug of water and a bowl full of raisins.
        And once upon that time, there was a small boy, a happy and

                                 217
imaginative boy, and his name was Tom - though his best friend
called him Tomato.
       “Prepare for war, Tomato!” shouted Arthur.
       That was his best friend.
       The two boys chased each other around the party, one with
a plastic sword and the other with a toy laser gun. One minute they
were enemy and foe, and the next minute they were a crack sniper
team working side by side to track down and exterminate – with
extreme prejudice, mind you – a horde of intergalactic aliens that
were protected by cloaking devices and forceﬁelds that could with-
stand a gazillion megaton nuclear bomb.
       “Help!” shouted Tom. “The Reticulan Alien Overlord has
me trapped.”
       He was backed into a corner with his imaginary gun aiming
all over the place. He had no idea where that darn alien was, on ac-
count of its cloak of invisibility.
       “I’m done for!” he shouted.
       But then out of nowhere, his best friend Arthur came ﬂy-
ing to his rescue – he had a jet pack after all. Arthur took his in-
terdimensional sword from its sheath and then sliced and hacked
at what, to most folks, must have looked like thin air, but to Ar-
thur, who was wearing special Octonion glasses that made him see
through Reticulan cloaking devices, was the alien’s back and neck.
       And it worked!
       “You did it,” shouted Tom, elated. “You scared off The Re-
ticulan Overlord Master. You saved my life.”
       “That’s what best friends do,” replied Arthur, as if it was
nothing at all.
       Then, the two boys hugged.
       “Best friends forever,” said Tom to Arthur.
       “Best friends forever,” said Arthur in reply.
       There was nothing better than playing, nothing at all. And
there was no better person to play with than each other. But that
fun got spoiled, as it always did, by the most ear-splitting wail.
       “Kids!” shouted The Teacher. “It’s time to learn about the
world!” she shouted.

                                218
        One by one, and sometimes ten or twenty at a time, the chil-
dren all put down their plastic toys and cellular phones, and ran to
where The Teacher stood, sitting cross-legged and wide-eyed in her
direction, ready for class.
        “Education,” exclaimed The Teacher. “Blah, blah, blah, blah,
education.”
        Then she showed them a picture of a door.
        “This is a door,” she said. “Remember it. It’s in the test.”
        And the children did their best to remember what a door
looked like.
        “One and one is two,” she said. “Two. The answer is two.
Remember two, it’s in the test.”
        “Two,” repeated the children, obedient and in unison. “The
answer is two.”
        Tom, though, like an excited atom, was incapable of sitting
still. His mind was effervescent with hundreds of questions all jos-
tling about for his attention. Curious, he was, about the world, but
not in the manner that was being taught to him.
        “Where does light go?” he asked. “What’s at the centre of
the universe? Why don’t people have fur? Were dragons just dino-
saur bones? Why do dogs walk in circles before they poop?”
        The Teacher, though, was quick to stem the boy’s delinquent
questioning.
        “Curiosity killed the cat,” she sang, interrupting the insolent
child.
        And then the children all joined in.
        “Curiosity killed the cat,” they sang, sweet and assailing at
ﬁrst, and then abrasive and accusing the next. “Curiosity killed the
cat. Curiosity killed the cat.”
        “This is The World,” said The Teacher. “Blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah. Responsibility. Career ambition. Adjustable-rate mort-
gages. Speed boats. Unplanned pregnancy. Alimony. Liposuction.
Carpe diem. Life insurance. Travel insurance. Tax deductable dona-
tions.. Pay lip service. Pay your dues. Retirement. C’est la vie. Blah,
blah, blah, blah…”
         The children repeated every single word.

                                 219
       “Remember it,” said The Teacher. “It’s in the test. Smart
people remember stupid people don’t.”
       “Blah, blah, blah,” said the children, repeating perfectly.
       “Grow up,” shouted The Teacher. “Stop being kids. Get ma-
ture! Get responsible! Have some shame! Shame is good! Shame is
God! Get jobs! Smart people remember dumb people don’t.”
       “Smart people are happy,” shouted the children. “Dumb
people are not.”
       “Remember it,” said The Teacher. “It’s in the test.”
       All Tom ever wanted to do, though, was play. He didn’t care
about the future. He didn’t care about getting older. He was young
right now, and this was a party, and all this talk of tomorrow was
making none of it fun today.
       “Let’s hunt The Reticulan Alien Overlords,” said he to his
best friend Arthur.
       “Yeah!” said Arthur in reply.
       And just like that, the two of them were off running from
room to room, pointing their intergalactic lasers and swinging their
interdimensional swords, hunting the evil Reticulan alien who itself
went from room to room, picking humans like ripe fruit and tak-
ing them through its interdimensional portal where it probably ate
their bodies and used their bones as straws so it could suck up all
their blood.
       “Death to no-good aliens,” shouted the two boys.
       Then they followed The Reticulan into the second room; the
room titled “ADULT’.
       “Out of the way, young fellas,” said a man, staggering past
with reddish-purple teeth and a chalice full of red wine.
       The second room wasn’t at all like the ﬁrst. Nobody looked
like they were having any fun at all. There was a lot of pushing and
shoving going on, and a lot of arguing and crying too. Not to men-
tion all the drinking. Whereas the kids would drink only when they
were thirsty or eating cake, the grown-ups never stopped.
       They were all drinking from the Decanter, guzzling the ar-
dent, articulate, and bitter wine, slurring their words as they did,
and barely ﬁnishing a clear and comprehensive idea.

                                220
       “Blah, blah, blah, blah, politically incorrect,” said some.
       “Blah, blah. Blah, blah, terrorism,” said the others.
       There was a TV at one end of the room, and it was showing
a movie that everyone loved to watch, and it was called Reality. And
on the other side were all the pulpits and pews and plastic chairs
where all the grown-ups argued with each other about what the
movie was about and how it would end.
        Everything about the room was different. All anyone ever
cared about was tomorrow or next week or in ten thousand years,
but nobody ever talked about now.
       “The economy is going to collapse,” said a grown-up. “The
sun is going to implode. Will I have my job in thirty years? Should
I get married? What if she wants a baby? What if she wants two?
What if there’s no rain? What if the Gods are angry? Which baby
should I kill? Will I have enough money for retirement? What are
we gonna do the weekend?”
       Maybe it was all the wine, or maybe it was just a fact of get-
ting older, but it seemed as if the grown-ups found themselves
incapable of being in the present, and instead, remained in a state
of constant panic – irksome and worrisome panic – about what
would happen tomorrow.
       “I see it,” said Arthur. “It’s about to kill one of the grown-
ups.”
       The two boys were sneaking between the pews and plastic
chairs, careful not to be too obvious or even too subtle for that
matter, for Reticulans had the keenest senses and could tell when a
human had caught onto them; and when they did, they were swift
and vicious in how they went about their killing.
       “We can’t let it know we can see it,” said Arthur.
       Only he had the special glasses that could see Reticulans.
Octonion Glasses, they were. Lenses with a particular geometry
which allowed Arthur to see particles and matter in space that was
otherwise dark and undetectable.
       “If it sees us we’ll be done for,” said Tom.
       Crouching beside his best friend, Tom shook like a leaf. He
was scared, yes, petriﬁed, even. Who wouldn’t be? But he was just

                                221
as excited too, and he could barely wipe the enormous smile off
his face.
       “He’s gonna take that man,” shouted Arthur.
       At one end of the room, a burly man – a man whose size and
weight was not made for balancing on a pulpit - gulped his wine,
and then took an awkward step, tripping as he did, before careen-
ing to the ground. The burly man hit his temple on the end of a
pew as he fell, killing him instantly.
       “It got him,” said Arthur.
       “We have to tell the grown-ups. We have to warn them.”
       It was no use, though. Grown-ups didn’t listen to kids. And
they didn’t speak to kids either; they spoke down to them – always
condescendingly, saying things like:
       “How was school? What did you learn? Do you have any
friends? That’s great. Aren’t you a smart cookie. Wow look at you;
look how much you’ve grown.”
       If they were going to save the world, they would have to do
it themselves.
       “CHARGE!” shouted Tom.
       Both boys pounced from their hiding spots, shooting their
lasers, and swinging their swords, but it was too late; the alien had
already slipped into the third room.
       “It’s getting away,” shouted Arthur.
       “Not if we can help it,” said Tom.
       “Death to Reticulan Alien Overlords!” they chanted.
       The last room was the quietest of the three. There was no
shouting, no televisions, and no music at all. Old folks weren’t try-
ing to be cool like the kids, nor were they trying to be pretty and
smart like the grown-ups; they didn’t seem like they had anything
to prove at all. In the third room, the old folks sat on stiff and
mostly uncomfortable sofas, chewing on raisins, and thinking only
about the past, the bittersweet nostalgia of a time that would never
return.
       “Any regrets?” asked one old lady to another.
       “Not for anything I did or didn’t do,” said she in return.
“But if I could go back, I wouldn’t worry so much. Turned out

                                222
there was never any need.”
       Tom and Arthur snuck through the door, slow and quiet as
they didn’t know where the alien was hiding, and the last thing they
wanted was to be ensnared by one of its diabolical traps.
       “Hello, boys,” said Grandma, spotting the two children right
away. “Would you like a raisin?”
       She had a small bowl in her hands, one ﬁlled to the brim with
raisins, her favourite treat in the world. She loved them so much
that even as she offering the boys one, she was stufﬁng ﬁve or six
between her teeth.
       “Would you like to hear a story?” she asked.
       Old folks loved to tell stories, almost as much as children
loved to hear them. Very different to grown-ups, who never had
the time, and whose patience was constantly hurried by the irk-
some and worrisome thoughts about the future.
       In fact, the only people who actually listened to kids were
old folks, and the only people who gave old folks the time of day
were kids.
       “I’d love to Grandma,” said Tom. “But we’re on an impor-
tant mission.”
       “A mission? That sounds like fun.”
       “Actually, it’s kind of serious.”
       “Oh, serious is it?”
       “Yeah, it is, Grandma. The fate of the world depends on us.”
       And both boys made their serious war faces.
       “Well, that does sound serious.”
       “We’re chasing a Reticulan Alien Overlord,” said Tom.
       Then he showed her his intergalactic laser.
       “This is my best friend Arthur.”
       Then Arthur showed her his interdimensional sword.
       “Well, aren’t you two just the sweetest,” said Grandma. “Do
you mind if Nanna plays too?”
       “It’s a bit dangerous, Nanna,” said Tom. “Maybe after we
save the world you can tell us that story.”
       Grandma smiled.
       “I’d love that,” she said.

                                223
        Then the two boys were off again, weaving their way through
the room, careful not to stand out and show to the alien that they
were onto it – lest it then be swiftly onto them.
        “I see it,” shouted Arthur.
        “Can I see? Can I borrow the Octonion Glasses?”
        “Hold on,” said Arthur worried. “Don’t move. I think….”
        Then out of nowhere, Arthur fell to the ground, his body
jerking about wildly.
        “What’s wrong, Arthur?” shouted Tom, dropping his inter-
galactic laser and grabbing his best friend’s hand.
        Arthur was sickly pale and barely able to respond.
        “He got me, Tom,” he said, his voice as soft and weak as his
little body. “The Reticulan Alien Overlord. He sprayed me with his
death spray.”
        “Don’t worry, Arthur,” said Tom. “You’re gonna be ok. I’ll
save you, just like you always save me. That’s what best friends do.”
        But Arthur couldn’t be saved.
        “What’s wrong with Arthur?” shouted Tom.
        “I’m sorry,” said The Teacher. “But Arthur is gone.”
        Arthur’s mum and dad were standing by the grape juice cry-
ing.
        “When will he be back?” asked Tom.
        “I’m afraid, he won’t be coming back to the party,” replied
The Teacher, cold and uncaring.
        “But why?” cried Tom.
        “Arthur was very sick.,” she said. “He’s in a better place now.”
        “No,” shouted Tom. “That’s not fair. He’s my best friend.
We promised we’d never leave each other.”
        Arthur’s body was placed into a black bag and carried away.
As it was, he dropped, not only his interdimensional sword but also
the Octonion Glasses that allowed him to see particles and matter
in space that were otherwise dark and undetectable.
        Tom rushed to pick up the glasses, and that was when he saw
the alien.
        “Arthur!” he shouted, seeing his best friend being carried
away by The Reticulan Alien Overlord. “It’s gonna be OK,” shouted

                                  224
Tom. “I won’t let it take you.”
       Then the alien opened a portal in one of the walls and disap-
peared through it.
       “I’m coming,” shouted Tom. “I’ll save you. Best friends for-
ever.”
       But it was too late, the portal had already closed. On the
other side, The Reticulan Alien Overlord packed up his experiment
and raced to school before the bell rang.
       “Welcome to the Reticulan Science Fair.”
       The banner hung from what looked like an old gymnasium,
but one that was interdimensional odd – odd, though, in a way that
was impossible to express, especially with words that had been de-
signed for what seemed like now, the insigniﬁcant parameters of a
paltry three-dimensional world.
       The Reticulan Alien Overlord entered the gymnasium carry-
ing, not just Arthur, but the whole world too. It was holding The
Earth in its alien hands as if it were a cantaloupe that it had picked
from a vine. Then it placed The Earth on its table next to a small
light bulb.
       “And what is your invention?” asked The Headmaster.
       The Reticulan it was speaking to, showed a series of math-
ematical calculations, then stuck a stick into a small beaker that was
full of a viscous and tar-like substance called space – then it twisted
the stick around and around so that one point was heavy and dense.
       “When I let go of the stick,” said the Reticulan boy. “The
energy unleashed as the matter returns to its resting state is enough
to power ten gymnasiums for ten aeons.”
       “Very good,” said The Headmaster.
       Then he moved to the next table. There were over two hun-
dred in all, lined up one after the other. And behind each there
stood nervous Reticulan boys and girls, all making last minute ad-
justments to their science projects.
       “And what is your name?” asked The Headmaster to a young
Reticulan girl.
       “Maryam,” said the girl.
       “And what is your energy invention?”

                                 225
        Maryam, the young Reticulan girl, set up her experiment. It
was much the same as the boy before her, using a stick to swirl up
the black gluggy substance known as space. But instead of letting
the stick go so that the substance snapped back to original form,
therefore letting off a wave of energy, Maryam took the very tip
of the swirl, that dense and heavy point of time and space often
referred to as the singularity, and she pricked it with single, inﬁni-
tesimal hole.
        “When we curve space like this using the zeta function,” she
said, referring to the black hole she had created in her beaker. “We
can harness more energy by controlled output as opposed to just
one spasmodic event. By dividing zero, we are able to make a small
tear in the fabric of space – ample enough for matter to be ex-
pressed, but small enough so that the singular force is maintained,
and neither matter nor pressure can leak. Then, when we apply
external geometric pressure, the fabric of space becomes a teat to
milk.”
        Maryam squeezed the end of the black hole just like a cow’s
teat. And just like her experiment proposed, jets of matter and en-
ergy, like fresh milk, burst out of the small tear in space.
        The Headmaster was very impressed. Not just him, the
whole class, in fact, were gobsmacked by her seemingly simple and
obvious invention – both of which it were not, but with the ease
at which the young Reticulan girl explained her science, she made
it seem as much.
        “I propose that we introduce smaller versions of these ener-
gy teats in solar systems at a distance of Pn+1 - Pn, and larger scale
models at the centre of each galaxy. As a rough estimate, I would
say that even running at one percent capacity, we would capture
enough energy to light a million gymnasiums this size for a million
aeons.”
        “Excellent work,” said The Headmaster. “A very good idea.”
        There were hundreds of good ideas, in fact. And for this
reason, The Reticulan Alien Overlord, as the children had called it,
was more nervous than it had ever been its life – all seventy-two
thousand years.

                                 226
       “What is your name?” asked The Headmaster.
       “I’m Jeff,” said The Reticulan Alien Overlord.
       “And what do we have here?”
       Jeff, as it was actually called, set up his invention.
       “I have looked for an organic solution to our energy prob-
lems,” he said. “Galaxy gobbling, as we have been doing for aeons,
is unsustainable. I propose a more compassionate solution to our
energy crisis.”
       “Compassionate?”
       “Cultivating with care, I call it.”
       The other Reticulans laughed.
       “I believe we can ﬁnd a way to power our society but without
negatively affecting the universe and all the particles inside of it.”
       “Hippy!” shouted the other Reticulans in hysterics, mocking,
and taunting poor Jeff.
       “Is this hippy nonsense?” asked The Headmaster.
       This was exactly what Jeff was worried about. He had spent
so long on this project. So much of his heart and mind had gone
into every square inch of it and there was no way the other Reticu-
lans would understand.
       “It’s not hippy nonsense,” he said, almost in tears.
       His nerves always did that. He wished he could curse and
shout like the other Reticulans did when they got defensive or mad.
Whenever he got worked up, though, the same thing always hap-
pened; ﬁrst, his legs wobbled, and then he cried.
       “It’s an organifarm,” he shouted.
       Again, the other Reticulans broke out in hysterical laughter.
       “Reticulans, please,” said The Headmaster. “Have some in-
tegrity. Have some restraint. Science is a doctrine of nobility and
honour. Act like you at least know what those words mean.”
       The Reticulans all quietened.
       “Now, Jeff,” said The Headmaster. “Tell, me about this hip-
py nonsense. How does it work? What is its energy gain factor?”
       “Well,” said Jeff, sucking up all his courage. “I call this The
Earth. It’s just a single cell but inside of it, there are over seven bil-
lion organic lifeforms that consume organic matter and disperse

                                   227
conscious energy.”
       “Conscious energy?”
       The Headmaster sounded woefully unimpressed.
       “I know consciousness isn’t as potent, but when I started
growing this farm, my initial input was almost zero-sum. The or-
ganic matter feeds on experiences and ideas that I introduced such
as politics and religion and natural disasters, and then generate
conscious energy as a by-product. And then I harvest that energy.
Just this cell alone,” he said, proudly. “Is enough to light this small
bulb for 30 seconds.”
       Then he took a cable and plugged one end it into The Earth,
and the other into the small lightbulb. There was a slight buzzing
sound and some brief ﬂickering, but the bulb did indeed light up.
       “You see? Imagine if we had billions of planets like this all
growing conscious organic matter. We wouldn’t need to be mining
galaxies.”
       “Gain factor,” said The Headmaster. “That’s all I’m inter-
ested in.”
       Of course, he was. That was all any Reticulans were inter-
ested in. Nobody cared about the intrinsic value. Nobody cared
about what it meant. All they cared about was Q=1.
       Jeff sighed.
       “Zero point zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero...
zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, one.”
       Then, it was The Headmaster who sighed, shaking his Re-
ticulan head.
       “And what are these?” he said, seeing Arthur and the other
humans laid out on the table.
       “They’re the organic matter,” said Jeff, dangling Arthur by
his legs. “You can eat them too. They’re good for you.”
       The Headmaster took a grown-up from the table and bit off
its head.
       “Ewww,” it said. “Bitter.”
       “The tastes vary as they age. The small ones are actually
quite sweet.”
       “And the wrinkly ones?”

                                 228
      “They’ll keep you regular.”
      “That’s a lot of effort you’ve put in here, Jeff,” he said.
      “Thank you, sir.”
      “That’s not a compliment,” said The Headmaster.
      As he spoke, the lightbulb ﬂickered off.
      “Organic farming is a hobby,” he said. “It is indeed hip-
py nonsense. Impressive only in that it helps to explain the bare
fundamentals of science in a manner that an infant would ﬁnd
stimulating and impressive. It is, though, inexcusably, and unques-
tionably incapable of sustaining the superﬂuous needs of a seven-
dimensional society. I’m afraid I’m going to have to give you a fail
on this one. Better luck next year.”
      Then he took The Earth and threw it in the bin.




                                229
230
Once upon a time, there was a man who was once a boy that was
once a baby which had once been a foetus that was once a single
cell in an egg. Harry was his name. And throughout his life, Harry
loved many things.
        When he was in his mummy’s tummy, for example, Harry
loved the sound of his mummy’s beating heart. It told him every-
thing he needed to know. It told him when she was happy, and then
he felt happy. It told him when she was scared, and then he felt
scared too. It also told him when she was in love, which sounded
almost exactly the same as when mummy was scared, except it felt
warm like the sun.
        He especially loved being wrapped up all tight and warm.
The world was small, and he was enormous inside of it. And in a
way, that made him feel safe. It must have been exactly how gold-
ﬁsh felt when they were being taken home from the store.
        When he was a baby, Harry loved being wrapped up in blan-
kets like a burrito, really tight, and gently rocked back and forth.
The world was big, you see, much bigger than a baby, and all that
empty space scared Harry – it had him constantly worried about
getting lost; that, and what would be hiding around every corner
waiting to gobble him up.
        When he was wrapped up tight, though, all that fear went
away. It made the world feel small, and he felt enormous inside of
it. Better still, then, when it was mummy who held him, close to
her beating heart.
        When he was a baby, Harry also loved being thrown in the
air as high as daddy could manage. Sometimes he would get as high
as, if not higher, than the tree out back. It was the scariest feeling in
the world, ﬂying through the air and seeing the house, the ground,
and even daddy, getting so small and so very far away. But when he
landed back in daddy’s hands, there was no better feeling.
        Mummy, though, it must be said, was not a fan. She pro-
tested constantly. And so, after every throw, she would take Harry
in her arms and squeeze him tight, close to her beating heart, and
then rock him back and forth, shushing all the excitement out of
him.

                                  231
       When he was a boy, Harry loved climbing on top of furni-
ture and jumping off. When he was older, he loved climbing on top
of walls and jumping off. And that time he broke his collar bone,
he had been climbing up onto the roof of the house.
       More than climbing things and getting hurt, though, Harry
loved the kisses on his grazed knees, the band-aids on his nicks and
cuts, and the hugs he got, whenever he had a fall or gave himself a
fright. Being wrapped up in mummy or daddy’s arms like that made
the world feel small, and as such, he felt enormous inside of it.
       Better still, then, if ever he fell asleep in front of the TV and
had to be carried to bed. There was no better feeling than being
picked up and taken somewhere – especially bed. He would feel
weightless, just like a goldﬁsh, and he would be tucked into bed
super tight, just like a burrito. And his bed was safe and warm, just
like mummy’s tummy.
       And when he was older, Harry loved heroin.
       Harry loved it more than anything else in the world. It was
the ﬁrst thing he did when he woke up every morning, and it was
the last thing he did before he went to bed every night. He loved
it more than he did, hugs and kisses. And he loved it more than
he did, his best friends and his own mum and dad. Nothing at all
compared.
       Heroin was like being thrown really fast and really high into
the air by daddy, and then being caught in mummy’s arms and
wrapped up all tight in a ﬂuffy cloud, then rocked back and forth
gently, like a leaf in a breeze.
       It was like mummy, and daddy, and God, and the universe all
wrapped their arms around him tightly and lifted him up off the
ground so that he could no longer feel the weight in his body or the
aches in his bones or the fear and anxiety that secreted like sticky
sap from his every nerve and muscle. It made the world feel small,
and it made him feel enormous inside of it. It was the closest thing
to be being back in mummy’s tummy.
       Heroin was the best!
       It wasn’t long, though, before Harry was giving two-dollar
hand jobs in a truck stop bathroom just to support his habit. And

                                  232
he wasn’t in the best of health either. His smelled like old cheese,
his face was covered in scabs and boils, and he itched constantly,
what with all the bugs crawling about in the gaps between his skin
and bones.
       Heroin, though, made it all go away.
       It made everything go away: the bugs, the itching, the big
scary world, and the anxiety of getting lost inside of it; and, as a
result, the fear, shame, and disgust that came along with being ad-
dicted to drugs.
       It made his family go away too. His family, his friends, his
job, his home, his pride, his decency, his happiness, his joy, his
dignity, and every inch of his self-respect too. He lost everything.
Abandoned everything.
       Heroin was that good.
       But then one day, when he had almost lost his life, Harry met
an old lady who asked him about the meaning of life.
       “Life is unfair,” he said to her. “It’s full of needless and un-
ending suffering.”
       The Old Lady smiled, then showed him her ﬁngers. They
were worn to the bone.
       “Not what is the meaning, young lad,” she said. “Where is
the meaning?”
       Then she pointed to a mountain out in the distance. An
enormous mountain that was so tall, its peak disappeared above
the clouds. Harry had never seen something so majestic yet on the
same hand, so perilous and daunting. Compared to it, every other
mountain was more like a mound, a hill, or a knoll.
       “Why would anyone choose to climb a mountain?” he asked
in Sisyphean protest. “That seems pointless, meaningless, and ab-
surd.”
       “Only to the observer,” said The Old Lady. “Every person
must climb a mountain; whether it is to pay a cost or claim a prize.
And life is unfair, but only if you do not choose your suffering.”
       “Why would anyone choose to suffer?”
       “One must suffer, for the tapestry of life is woven from it.
If you choose not to suffer, your suffering will be chosen for you.

                                 233
If you choose not to climb a mountain – one with a ﬁrm footing
and a clear route – one will be chosen for you. You will ﬁnd your-
self on a mountain, but one that dirties your spirit as much as it
does your hands and feet.”
       “I don’t wanna climb a mountain or suffer. I just want to feel
good.”
       “And for that, you suffer,” she said. “Needlessly and unend-
ing.”
       Again, she pointed to the mountain in the distance.
       “That mountain there,” she said. “I guarantee you. If you
were to climb to its peak with one question in mind, a question that
has caused you great misery, burden and intolerable struggle - a
question that has caused you immense anxiety, bother, and distress
– when you reach that peak, you will ﬁnd a wise old man who will
give you the answer to relieve you of all that needless and unend-
ing suffering – that which, not only has you sticking needles in your
veins, but also thinking that life is unjust and unfair. If one must
suffer,” said The Old Lady in closing. “Better for it to be then, a
noble suffering.”
       Either inspired or unnerved by The Old Lady, Harry de-
cided to do something drastic. He decided to kick the habit. No
more heroin. No more hand jobs. It was time to get clean once
and for all.
       “I’m gonna climb that mountain,” he said to his family and
friends “All the way to the top.”
       “Good for you,” said everybody.
       “I’m proud of you,” said his mum and dad.
       Then, in the morning, Harry set off to climb that mountain.
He took with him some food and water, along with the loving sup-
port and pride of his family and friends, those he had so recklessly
abandoned.
       “We know you can do it!”
       “We believe in you!”
       “You’re the bravest person in the world.”
       And for the ﬁrst time in as long as anyone could remember,
Harry didn’t have any heroin. That’s not to say that he didn’t want

                                234
any. Heck no! His mind was going absolutely bananas trying to
convince him that his intestines would explode out the back of his
eyeballs if he didn’t have a taste in the next thirty seconds. Harry,
though, just ignored it. He acted as if the urges were nothing at all,
and instead made his way to the foot of the mountain.
       Just as The Old Lady had said, Harry thought of a question;
one that had been bothering him most of his life – a question that,
for as long as he could remember, heroin had helped him erase.
And when he had a ﬁrm grasp of it in his mind, he clasped his
hands onto the ﬁrst hold that stuck out from the noble mountain
and made his ascent.
       It wasn’t easy, thinking and climbing at the same time – es-
pecially a mountain as tricky as this. Were he to moan and curse
or were he to misplace a ﬁngernail or a toe, he would slip and go
careening to the ground below. Were he to be distracted for even a
billionth of a second, he’d be done for – he’d be kaput, over, dead!
       Such was the importance of the placement of every one of
his ﬁngers and toes and such was the immediacy of every single
second that Harry had no time to contemplate on what he thought
or how he felt.
       In his mind, his subjective self – that wild and vivid imagi-
nation which often obsessed over the most inane, irrelevant, and
inconsequential things – vanished altogether. With it, so too did
his fear, anxiety, and that incessant and unsettling worry. There was
not one thought in his mind whatsoever.
       Every step of the way his family and friends cheered his
name. Their voices echoed in his ears. Their faith boiled in his
blood. He felt inspired. He felt empowered. Their love and support
wrapped around him like a blanket. It made the world feel small. It
made him feel enormous inside of it, something heroin used to do.
       “We love you!” they shouted.
       Inch by inch, Harry worked his way up the mountain, feeling
for the ﬁrst time as if his life mattered. He felt visible. He felt cared
for. He felt special.
       “I can do this,” he said to himself. “I can really do this. I can
be someone. I can be noble and good, just like everyone else. I can

                                  235
have a life. A life that means something. I can live. I can love. I can.
I really can. I can do this.”
         “We love you, Harry!” shouted everyone below.
         “You’re our hero.”
         “You’re the best.”
         There were moments where he felt like giving in – hundreds
of them. Each time, though, he thought of the people who loved
him cheering him on and it gave him the strength and the will to
climb further.
         He climbed for days. He climbed for weeks. He climbed un-
til, like The Old Lady, the skin on his ﬁngers had worn down to the
bone. He climbed until the bones themselves had all but ground to
dust. He climbed until his body ached, his mind fatigued, and ev-
ery last drop of his will had been spent. He climbed until he could
almost climb no more.
         And then, when he hauled himself over the last ledge, when
he dragged himself up onto the peak, he let out the most perplex-
ing sigh – one that was as much an exclamation of relief as it was, a
sheer sense of disbelief. For there was no wise old man. There was
no one at all. It was only him on that mountain.
         Lucky then, as somewhere along the way, he had forgotten
his question.
         His mood, though, up on the summit, quickly deﬂated. He
didn’t at all feel as exhilarated as he thought he would. In fact, he
was somewhat depressed. It was quiet here, you see. There was no
whistling and no cheering, and nobody offering him luck or re-
gards. Now that he was on the summit, now that his suffering was
done, life seemed dull and boring.
         Harry thought about how wonderful it had been on the side
of the mountain. Life had had purpose. It had had meaning. It had
had substance. He had been someone – someone that his family
and friends could look up to, someone to which they could aspire.
         He had been bold, daring, courageous, and an inspiration to
all.
         Now, though, now that he was clean, now that he had
climbed that mountain, now that he had beaten heroin, he wasn’t

                                  236
special anymore. He wasn’t courageous. He didn’t inspire. He was
just like everybody else.
        You see, life was long and uninteresting, and staying sober
looked no fun at all. Nobody, in fact, looked as if they were enjoy-
ing themselves. Yet, on that mountain, being showered as he was,
with the love and support of his family and friends, Harry had felt
as if his life actually mattered. But here on the summit, when he
was just like everyone else, he felt invisible again. He felt unremark-
able, ineffectual, and impotent.
        So, much to everyone’s dismay, Harry climbed back down
the mountain. And the next day he was back using heroin and giv-
ing two-dollar hand jobs. And it wasn’t so much that heroin was
the best feeling in the world, no, not this time; it was that kicking it
gave his life meaning and importance.
        And he couldn’t wait to kick it again.
        And again.
        And again…….




                                  237
238
Once upon a time, there was a man who lived in a golden house
that was furnished with golden things and who wore golden robes
all day long. His lawn was golden, his bed was golden, and even his
clothes were made of gold. He had golden teeth and golden eyes
and hair that shimmered like gold. His dog was golden, his cat was
golden, and even his wife and child were made of gold.
       But this story is not about him.
       This is the tale of the man who lived across the way. A man
who lived in an average house that was furnished with common
things and who wore regular clothes just like everyone else. He
had a sunburned lawn, an uncomfortable bed, and his clothes were
sewn from a ﬁbre that made him itch. He had yellow teeth, a wan-
dering eye, and hair that was balding unevenly. His dog was incon-
tinent, his cat had cataracts, but his wife and child were, for the
meantime at least, as good as gold.
       Stanley was his name.
       And he, on one hand, loved his ordinary life, and on the
other, dreamed relentlessly about what it must be like to live in a
house that was made of gold. It wasn’t just Stanley either, his wife
and daughter spent all their time, too, sitting on their porch and
imagining what their lives would be like had they a great deal more
money and a great deal more time to spend it.
       Stanley, though, was a realist.
       “One must deserve this kind of life,” he would say to his
family over and over. “The life you have tomorrow is the reward
for the life you live today.”
       He meant this both literally and spiritually. You see Stanley
believed wholeheartedly that each person was a spirit on a constant
quest, and each life in which one reincarnated, was the reward for
the effort put into the life before.
       “In our past lives, we were thousands of miles away from the
life that we deserve – a life of riches and all the time in the world
to spend them.”
       “Are we closer now?” asked his daughter.
       “We are just a ways off,” said Stanley in reply. “If we can see
the gold then it is almost assured that should we live a life of virtue

                                 239
and embrace our suffering, then in the next life, we will be one step
closer.”
        It hadn’t been an easy life, not for either one of them. But
hearing this – knowing that their suffering would account for
something beautiful and peaceful in their next lives – put all their
minds at ease. It made Stanley smile. It made Suzanne smile – that
was Stanley’s wife. And it made his daughter smile too – her name
was Hope.
        And every day they toiled at their jobs and scrimped and
saved just to get by. If they had to sell their car to pay a water bill,
well then that was just what they did. And if they had to sell the car
for eighty percent below market value just to get it sold, well then,
a little difﬁculty wasn’t going to get in their way.
        “It’s all about the next life,” said Stanley, and everybody
agreed. “In this life, we eat chicken but in the next life we will eat
duck.”
        Then one day Hope was hit by a bus on her way home from
school. It was the worst day of Stanley and Suzanne’s life. The
only bit of gold they’d had, the part of their lives that mattered the
most, had been taken from them.
        “It’s just a test,” said Stanley. “Like any other. A test of our
virtue. A test of our spirit. We will see her in our next life – the life
we deserve. And then we will have our life of gold.”
        Suzanne agreed though it wasn’t easy.
        In time, though, they healed. And they continued their lives
of virtue and suffering. And as they had done for decades, they sat
on their porch each night and watched the man who lived in the
golden house admiringly.
        “His lives must have been difﬁcult,” said Stanley. “They must
have been ﬁlled with untold suffering. And in spite of it all, he
must have been so virtuous, more than any of us could ever imag-
ine, to have earned all those riches and all that time to spend them.
Soon that will be us.”
        But Suzanne had quietly passed away. They were old you see.
At the end of their lives. Lives of which had been spent in virtue.
Lives of which had been spent suffering. And as a testament to

                                  240
that, Stanley lived on for another week – as long as he could – with
a heart that had been broken in half.
        And then he died too.
        In his next life, Stanley lived further from the man who lived
in the golden house. A lot further actually. He lived on the outskirts
of town, where houses were shabby, nobody really had things, and
the clothes you wore had been handed down since your grandfa-
ther was a boy.
        He didn’t think anything of it, though, assuming that when
he became a man – when he was older – he would get the life that
he deserved; a life made entirely of gold.
        “One day I’ll live in the house made of gold, Mamma,” he
said. “You’ll see.”
        “I’m sure you will,” said Mamma. “But until then, how about
you help me catch these rats. Or else there’ll be no meat for lunch.”
        And so, he did. Stanley was a wonderful son. He was not put
off by hard work. And he was not scared by the thought of a life-
time of suffering. For he knew that a soul could only gain strength
through difﬁculty and that his suffering would bring him one step
closer, each time, to a life of great riches with all the time in the
world to spend them.
        And when he was a young man, he fell in love and got mar-
ried. Her name was Suzanne. And in no time, they built a life to-
gether, one near a river – a river that smelled like old diapers and
socks. It was far from the man who lived in the golden house. Very
far actually. It wasn’t too far, though, that they couldn’t see the tini-
est shimmer of gold beaming up into the sky – way, way off in the
distance.
        “One day that will be us,” said Stanley. “When we have lived
a life of virtue. When we have lived a life of suffering. Then we will
have the life we deserve. Then we will have a life of riches and all
the time in the world to spend them.”
        Suzanne agreed though it wasn’t easy.
        Soon enough they started a family. They had a daughter;
her name was Hope. She was born three months premature and
for a good while, none of the doctors thought she would survive.

                                  241
Stanley and Suzanne, though, never lost faith. Suffer they did – in-
tolerably – but they walked that difﬁcult path with virtue and then
one day, Hope was well enough to be taken home.
       “I could have never gotten through it without you,” said
Stanley.
       “I could have never gotten through it without you too,” said
Suzanne in reply.
       Both had seen it as but a test. A test of their virtue. A test
of their spirit. And soon enough it became just one of a lifetime
of tests, for theirs was a lifetime of great difﬁculty – a lifetime of
stress, burden, and dismay. Not once, though, did they ever give in.
Not once did they ever lose their way.
       “The life you have tomorrow is the reward for the life you
live today.”
       Hope, though, wanted roller skates.
       “Why can’t I have them, daddy?”
       “Because we are poor, my child.”
       “Why are we poor?”
       “Because we were born into a poor caste.”
       “Why can’t we just move to a different caste?”
       “One is what they are born into, my child, and one cannot
escape. One must suffer. One must endure. It is one’s virtue to suf-
fer. And in the next life, you will have the riches that you deserve
and all the time in the world to spend them.”
       Hope agreed, but it wasn’t easy.
       And it wasn’t either. This life was a hundred times worse
than his last. Yet, he had lived a life of suffering in absolute virtue.
By his own words, his family should have been at the very least,
one step closer to the life they deserved, not a thousand miles away.
       This life was far worse. They were cold. They had lice in their
hair. Their teeth were rotten. They always had a rash. And they
were constantly hungry. It was a feeling though that they had come
to accept, and as such, it was a kind of suffering that they were able
to endure.
       “In this life, we eat rat but in the next life we will eat chick-
en,” said Stanley.

                                  242
        Then three days later they all died of septicaemia.
        In his next life, Stanley was no farther from the man who
lived in the golden house than he was in the life before. In this life,
though, instead of living near the polluted river, he lived under a
bridge, besides it. It was in that polluted river where he bathed, and
it was from that polluted river that he drank.
        And it was bathing in that dank, fetid water where he met the
love of his life – Suzanne. They fell head over heels instantly and
married as quick as they could.
        “The life you have tomorrow is a reward for the life you live
today,” said Stanley.
        Suzanne agreed though it wasn’t easy.
        Soon enough they decided it was time to start a family. There
was nothing else in the world as important. And so, try and try they
did but for the life of them, they just couldn’t conceive.
        “It is a test,” said Stanley. “A test of our virtue. A test of our
spirit.”
        Eventually, Suzanne did get pregnant. It was a miracle. Fi-
nally, they could start dreaming then about the life they deserved as
a family, one of great riches and all the time in the world to spend
them.
        “We will have the life we deserve,” said Stanley. “For the ef-
fort, we put into the life we have today. A life of noble suffering.”
        And suffer he did. For only three months into the pregnan-
cy, Suzanne was troubled by unimaginable pain which itself was
marked by blood running down her legs. Under the bridge as they
were, and in the caste to which they belonged, there was no doctor
that they could call. And even if there were, in the part of town
where they lived, no doctor in their right mind would attend.
        And so, Suzanne and their unborn child died one night in
September. And Stanley was left loveless and hopeless. Give up,
though, he did not. For he knew that in the next life he would be
rewarded for his suffering. He would earn the life he deserved. A
life of great riches and all the time in the world to spend them.
        But in his next life, Stanley was a rat. Not only was he so very
far from the man who lived in the golden house, but were he to

                                   243
even see a golden house, it would mean nothing to him.
        He had suffered intolerably, not only in his last life but in ev-
ery life he had ever lived. A suffering, mind you, that in retrospect
had been noble and virtuous. He never once cursed the universe
for the caste to which he had found himself belonging. He never
once damned his suffering as unjust or wrong. No, he had suffered
nobly.
        But he had life afterlife, gotten further from the man who
lived in the golden house. Further still, it would seem, from a life
of great riches and all the time in the world to spend them. He had
gotten so far indeed that instead of being born again as a man in
the midst of arduous struggle, he was a buck-toothed, long-tailed
rodent. A rat. A stinking sewer-dwelling, disease spreading rat.
        “The life you have tomorrow is the reward for the life you
live today,” he thought.
        Then he was caught in a trap, ﬂung against a wall by his tail,
and ﬁnally killed after three or four blunt thumps. Later, he was
cooked over a meagre looking ﬁre and eaten by a family who them-
selves had been doing it tough.
        And in his next life, Stanley was a parasite.
        “Congratulations, Stanley.”
        It was God, or Yehowah, or Allah, or Buddha, or Krishna,
or an alien overlord. It was omniscient, though. It was all-seeing. It
was all-knowing. And it spoke to Stanley as if it had been watching
his every life like its favourite television show, one, though, which
had come to a gripping climax.
        “None have suffered as nobly as yourself, Stanley. None have
endured with as much poise, sophistication, and grace. No soul has
evolved so rapidly. No soul has become as strong.”
        “I don’t understand,” said Stanley. “I thought that a life of
suffering was a test of my virtue. I thought it was a test of my
spirit.”
        “It was,” said The Entity.
        “Then where is the life I deserve? Why did it only get worse
and worse? Why am I here, an amoeba in a polluted river, when I
should be a man in a golden house? I have loved and I have lost

                                  244
more than any man need. Where is the life I deserve?”
       “A life of great riches and all the time in the world to spend
them is no reward for any soul. A life without burden, a life with-
out suffering, a life without struggle is no life indeed. Only the
most admirable can endure the most intolerable. Only the truly
noble can live amongst ﬁlth and waste. For strength and virtue is
the richness that such a soul deserves. Better then, to be a piece
of gold covered in shit, then to be a piece of shit, covered in gold.
Welcome to the life that you deserve,” it said.
       Stanley swam away down the river. None of this was what he
had expected. He had always thought that at some point, he would
ﬁnd himself in a house made of gold with a great many riches and
all the time in the world to spend them. How wrong he had been.
       So off he swam, content, as it were, that his suffering had
been worthwhile. All that he had loved and all that he had lost had
not been in vain. And so, swim he did, until he made a home in a
quiet part of the river. There he met another amoeba; her name
was Suzanne. And in no time, they had a daughter; Hope was her
name. And the three amoebas lived happily ever after.
       Then, one day, there was a tremendous splash in the part
of the river where they lived. A giant and raucous and unexpected
splash. A man had jumped into the river; a man with clothes made
from gold.
       “The life you have tomorrow,” said Stanley. “Is the reward
for the life you live today.”
       Then Stanley, Suzanne, and Hope all swam up the man’s nose
and made their way to his brain. And there they made their new
home; in the body of a man who lived in a house made of gold.




                                245
246
Once upon a time, there was a man who lived in a part of town that
was dangerous and dicey and dire. Angus was his name, and he had
the most curious profession.
       “Are you the rubber man?”
       “I certainly am,” said Angus.
       That was his nickname, in part, because of his curious pro-
fession.
       “I want you to make my wife disappear.”
       You see, Angus was a hitman. And a very good one at that.
Probably the best in the whole town. He had, in fact, over the last
decade or so, made over a thousand people disappear.
       “Everyone says that you’re the best.”
       The old man speaking to Angus was a bundle of nerves. His
voice was shaking almost as much as his wrinkly old hands. They
weren’t, though, nerves of fear or trepidation. It wasn’t the kind
of nerves that one felt whilst waiting for a root canal. Nor was it
the kind of nerves that one felt at the thought of looking stupid in
front of a room full of strangers.
       No. These were happy nerves.
       They were the kind of nerves that happened on birthdays
and Christmas mornings. They were the kind of nerves that were
immediately followed by hugs and celebrations. They were the kind
of nerves that felt exactly like candy tasted.
       “Can you kill her today? Before supper? Can you kill her
soon?”
       The old man was almost dancing on the spot.
       “We’ll have to talk particulars ﬁrst,” said Angus.
       “It doesn’t need to be fancy. Quick and easy should be good
enough. She’d like that. Mabel was never really big on pomp or
celebration.”
       He wore the most tremendous smile whenever he said her
name. His eyes, too. They gleamed. It was as if, like a lighthouse,
Mabel, were inside of him, beaming out through his eyes warding
him from shipwreck and danger.
       “On our wedding day,” said the old man nostalgically. “She
wore the same blue ﬂoral dress that she had worn in the garden

                                247
that morning picking weeds and pulling out daisies. There was
as much dirt and mud on that dress as there was under her nails.
Beautiful, she was. If you were lucky enough to have seen her. The
prettiest ﬂower I’d ever seen in my life.”
        The old man was gushing.
        “Have you ever felt as if you didn’t deserve the life you had?
That God messed up and accidentally put you in your life instead
of the person he had originally intended – someone better in every
way possible?”
        “How old is she?” asked Angus, ﬁlling out his murder form.
“Does she have any allergies?”
        “That’s how I felt my whole life,” said the old man. “It’s how
I felt every time I got to look her in the eyes. It’s the way I felt every
time I got to hold her hand. It’s the way I felt every time we kissed.
So bloody lucky. Yet scared the whole time, you know? Thinking
that God was gonna realise at any moment and take her away from
me – give her to someone better. I never took a second for granted,
though. Not one. She’s eighty-two. And no allergies, no. But she’s
not fond of sweet perfumes or aftershaves. Makes her gassy and a
little nauseous. Sensitive nose. So, just, uh, keep that in mind.”
        “Is she active in the community? How quickly will she be
reported missing?”
        “Oh, it’s just us. We never needed anybody else. Why would
we? We had each other.”
        “Do you have a picture?”
        “You know, I still remember the ﬁrst time I ever met Mabel –
as clear as day it is. Her hair was up in curls; she’d just left the hair-
dressers, she had. Nipped next door for a milkshake with a dozen
of her friends. They were all getting prettied up for a school dance.
Mabel didn’t need it, though, if you ask me. She was already pretty
enough – with or without the curls.”
        “I’ll need a photo,” said Angus. “A description at least.”
        He was, after all, going to murder the woman.
        “Her eyes are like two setting suns,” said the old man. “Always
partly closed. Just as reverent. Just as warm. Her gaze alone could
put the most worrisome troubles at ease. Kind and considerate,

                                   248
it is. Attentive too, and always present. When she looks at you –
every single time – you feel seen. You feel visible. You feel impor-
tant.”
        “Eyes like suns,” said Angus, drawing two average-sized cir-
cles.
        The old man, though, wasn’t done.
        “Her lips are like clouds. They are as soft to look at as they
are to kiss.”
        The old man was like a grain of salt, adrift in an ocean of
love. He dissolved with every thought of her. He was as much her
as she was him. Sixty years they had spent together. Sixty beautiful
years.
        “I’m really excited,” he said. “You can probably tell.”
        It would be impossible not to. He had all the charm and
merry whim of a child unwrapping a present. His joy was palpable.
It was hard not to smile too. He hardly looked or sounded like a
man who was ordering the contracted murder of his spouse. He
could have just as easily been at a ﬂower store, arranging the most
sumptuous and resplendent bouquet.
        This was not lost on Angus. He had never seen such a dis-
play of genuine affection. Never before had he ever heard a man
speak so glowingly about their wife. Never before had he seen it so
blatant, honest, and true in a man’s expression. Never before had
he seen a man so affected by love. He wished, in part, it were him.
        “You seem to love your wife,” said Angus.
        The old man smiled; a smile though that had a voice of its
own. A smile that said, “Yes, I do. I love my wife. I adore her. I re-
vere her. I admire her. She never ceases to amaze me. She’s funny.
She’s smart. She’s gorgeous. She’s kind. She’s more beautiful than
gold. She’s more precious than air. She is the colour in my heart
and eyes. Without her, I am but a blank page. She is the excited
shiver on the back of my neck. She is every beat of my heart. She
is the answer to every question. She is my whole world. She is my
raison d’être. She is love.”
        “I do,” said the old man. “I do indeed.”
        The old man blushed. It was the ﬁrst moment he was

                                 249
actually speechless. Angus, though, looked perturbed. This was not
the normal behaviour of anyone who ever asked for his services.
He was used to the rage and scorn of jilted lovers and vengeful
businessmen, cheated out of their trust and inheritance. He was
used to the sound of their grinding teeth and cracking knuckles. He
was used to the air of their hate.
        This was very different.
        “Can I ask you a question?” he said.
        “Of course,” replied the old man.
        “Why do you want her dead?”
        Normally he never asked that question. Normally he never
cared.
        “Because I love her,” said the old man. “I love her so very
much. I love her more than anything in the world.”
        “Then why have her murdered?”
        It seemed like an obvious question. So, too then, did the old
man’s answer.
        “Have you ever seen an old lady sitting inconsolable in the
park all alone, crying to herself all day long?”
        “Yes,” said Angus.
        He had seen his mother this way. He had seen the relatives,
too, of all the people he had murdered. All of them drowning in a
sea of sorrow; pulled under by a current of anguish and woe. He
had even felt it himself.
        “One is never in mourning,” said the old man. “One is mere-
ly in love.”
        He looked, for a second, as if his wife were already gone – as
if he were already missing her.
        “Grief is the wake that follows romance. The greater a per-
son’s love and devotion, the more grave and grievous is their suffer-
ing. The old lady stricken with inconsolable sadness is not grieving;
she is not in mourning – she is in love. That is what love is. Love
is grief. Love is mourning. Love hurts. Love is the hurting. Only in
death can one measure the true extent of their love,” he said.
        The old man started to cry. He did, though, whilst smiling.
        “I love her so dearly. I just…. I can’t wait. I want to know

                                 250
how much I loved her. I want to know now.”
       He was like a child, a week before Christmas, begging to
open his present.
       “She’ll live past hundred,” he said. “She’ll live long past me.
I’ll never get to know. I know it sounds selﬁsh. I do. Loving Mabel
is absolute. Nothing else compares. To not feel the grief of her
passing. To not drown in mourning. To have not loved her com-
pletely. The thought of that haunts me.”
       “You’re killing her for love? To see how much you love her?”
       “I’m having her killed to complete our love. But yes, so that I
can see how much our love was worth. If our love was true then I’ll
live the rest of my days in misery and woe. If it’s really true, well,
then I’ll die of a broken heart.”
       “OK,” said Angus, blasé. “I can get it done after lunch. Do
you know where she is?”
       “She’s just outside,” said the old man, merry, “We thought it
best to come in one at a time.”
       “Outside? One at a time? Hold on? Mabel’s her name?”
       The old man dissolved again. He loved hearing her name.
       Angus, though, was a tad confused; taken aback even.
       “My nine-thirty. Her name’s Mabel. She isn’t…”
       “Yep,” said the old man with a winning grin. “My Mabel.”
       Now it was Angus who looked adrift. He looked rudderless.
He looked lost.
       “Probably should have just made the one appointment,” said
the old man.
       “Well then, who does she want to kill?”
       The old man smiled.
       “We probably should just call her in. Mabel, honey,” he
shouted, poking his head around the side. “He’s ready for you now,
buttercup. You can come on in.”
       Mabel strolled into the room. She was just like the old man
had described her.
       “This is my Mabel,” said the old man proudly. “Mabel. This
is the rubber man.”
       Mabel was ever so polite. She didn’t just shake Angus’ hand,

                                 251
she complimented him too – on his attire, his choice of curtains,
and how pretty his lawn looked.
      “You’d hardly believe you were a murderer,” she said with
glowing praise.
      It was easy to see why the old man loved her so much.
      “So, you’re the rubber man, then?” she asked.
      “I am,” said Angus.
      “Can you make my husband disappear?” she said.
      Angus stared at the old man. He was grinning and nodding
his head as if to say, “Didn’t I tell you she was amazing? Didn’t I tell
you she was perfect? Didn’t I tell you you’d fall in love?”
      “Uh…yes,” said Angus.
      He had never been in this situation before.
      “I can kill your husband.”
      “Oh fantastic,” said Mabel.
      Then she hugged the old man and kissed him on the cheek.
      “You were right,” she said. “He deﬁnitely is the best, isn’t
he?”
      The old couple held hands and stared at each other smiling.
They looked as if they were renewing their vows, not negotiating
to have each other murdered.
      “Does she know why you’re here?” asked Angus.
      The old man smiled.
      “That she does,” he said.
      “So, you know he wants to hire me to kill you?”
      “Absolutely,” said Mabel.
      “Really? And you’re ok with that?”
      “It was her idea,” said the old man.
      “It was your idea?”
      Mabel blushed.
      “It was just a good idea,” she said. “Anyone could have had
it.”
      “You see what I mean?” said the old man. “So humble. She’s
perfect.”
      “And you want me to kill him?”
      “I love Abel,” said Mabel. “I’ve loved him for sixty years.

                                  252
He’s my in and my out, my up and my down; he’s my back and
forth, he’s my round and round. Abel is my everything. He is my
everywhere. Every second of the last sixty years I’ve been either
looking into those handsome eyes or dreaming about them. There’s
no man more kind. There is no man more loyal. There is none who
could make a woman feel more special. There is none stronger and
none sexier. There is no man at all who could ever compare. I’ve
loved Abel for sixty years now, and since the ﬁrst day I met him,
I just couldn’t wait to feel what it would be like to feel him gone.”
       She too wept as if he were already dead. And she too did so
with a smile.
       “I love you, Mabel,” said Abel.
       “I love you, too,” said she in reply.
       This was all highly unconventional.
       “Can you do it now?” asked Mabel. “While we are here.”
       “Oh, that would be fantastic,” said Abel.
       He was jumping on the spot now. Both of them were, in fact.
Abel was jumping on the spot and Mabel was swinging her hips as
if the most fantastic song were playing loudly in her head.
       “Do you have the money?” asked Angus.
       He was, by no means, ok with this. He was, though, a profes-
sional.
       Mabel and Abel both lifted a heavy suitcase onto the table. It
was ﬁlled with exactly the amount that Angus had speciﬁed.
       “Four hundred and sixteen thousand dollars,” said Mabel
and Abel together. “Our life savings.”
       There was only one bag, though.
       “There’s only one bag,” said Angus. “So, whose money is it?”
       “Ours,” they both said.
       “Obviously, you can only kill one of us,” said Mabel. “But
we both worked our butts off for every single penny here.”
       She was so proud. Abel was too. Angus, though, was con-
fused.
       “So, who do I kill?” he asked.
       “Kill Mabel,” said Abel. “If you’re able, that is.”
       “If you’re able,” said Mabel. “Then kill Abel for me.”

                                253
       “So, what?” said Angus. “I’m supposed to choose? That’s
not how this works. None of this is how this works. I can’t do this.
I’m not gonna do this.”
       Mabel, then, started to cry. It was the ﬁrst time Abel had ever
seen her this way. She was distraught. She was visibly upset. Where
was the sunset in her eyes? Where was the warmth that spilt from
them, now, that they were cloudy and grey?
       “Kill me,” said Abel. “I want you to kill me.”
       Mabel’s crying didn’t stop, but the look in her eyes did. They
were warm again. She cried, yes, but hers were tears of compassion
and friendship. Hers were tears of love and devotion.
       “My dear, Abel,” said Mabel. “You would do that for me?”
       “I would,” said Abel. “My love for you is entire. You’re my
best friend. You’re my companion. You’re the sun that guides me
throughout my day and the moon that looks over me in the dark-
ness of night. You are the air in my lungs. You are the blood in my
veins. Your voice echoes in every beat of my heart. I have lived
only because of you. And I will die for you.”
       “I love you so much, Abel.”
       “And I love you too. I want you to mourn, my dear Mabel. I
want you to grieve. I want you to feel our love complete.”
       Mabel threw her arms around Abel and kissed him passion-
ately.
       “You, lucky girl,” he said.
       “I know,” said Mabel. “I’ve always known. I was lucky to
have met you. I was lucky to have fallen in love with you. I was
lucky to have spent almost all my life with you. And I’m lucky, even
now, to have you. For there is no man so kind as to give such a gift
as this.”
       It was true. Both had spent the last sixty years saving their
love like loose change in a piggy bank. Both had dreamt about
being the ones who would be lucky enough to smash it open and
spend all the savings.
       “I hope you grieve forever,” said Abel.
       “I hope I do too,” said Mabel in reply.
       They stared into each other’s eyes tenderly. Then she kissed

                                 254
his lips – her kiss as soft as a breeze.
       “Okie dokie,” said Angus.
       Then he shot the old man in the head. It was quick. It was
clean.
       “So, what now?” he said.
       “Wait, I suppose,” said Mabel.
       She looked edgy as if she were waiting for a bus, unsure if
one would even come at all.
       “How long should it take?” asked Angus. “The sadness, the
mourning, the grief ?”
       “I imagine straight away,” said Mabel.
       She should have been in tears by now. She should have been
drowning in a sea of sorrow; pulled under by a current of anguish
and woe. She should have been heartbroken. She should have been
inconsolable.
       “So, how do you feel?” asked Angus.
       The truth was, she felt no sadness at all. She felt neither the
onset of mourning nor the tide of grief. She felt neither doleful
nor blue. She felt nothing at all.
       “Huh, that’s funny,” she said as if she had just discovered
she had been wearing her cardigan inside out. “I guess I didn’t love
him after all.”




                                 255
256
Once upon a time, last February actually, there was a girl, who,
while all the other girls were playing with skipping ropes and cootie
catchers, sat in a bathroom stall by herself sick to the stomach –
sick, not because she had eaten something spoiled, but because she
had just found out the worst and scariest news ever.
       Her name was Felicity.
       “Felicity and Ethan sitting in a tree, K-I-S-S-I-N-G.”
       Ethan was her boyfriend. He was a few years older. Actually,
he was in twelfth grade, so he was a senior. And Felicity, well she
was only thirteen. They’d been going steady for about a month or
so, maybe two; depends on who you ask.
       “First comes love, then comes marriage.”
       The girls singing weren’t her friends. They weren’t even in
her class. They were just the mean and popular girls that teased
other kids with the words of their songs. It just so happened that,
on that day, Felicity was in the stall crying while they were play-
ing with their skipping rope and cootie catchers and pretending to
smoke.
       “…then comes a little baby sleeping in a carriage.”
       Felicity didn’t have any friends - not anymore. She didn’t
have anyone to play games with. She didn’t have anyone to laugh
with. And there was no one she could tell a single secret to at all.
She was alone. She had no one. Not one friend at all.
       “Felicity and Ethan, sitting in a tree…”
       The mean girls kept up their teasing and taunting all through
recess. They would have kept going too, had a teacher not over-
heard and ordered them to march straight back to class. Felicity,
though, stayed in the stall – sometimes crying, sometimes throwing
up.
        When she was young, all Felicity ever wanted to be was
grown up. It didn’t matter what job she did, the idea of being a
grown-up just sounded awesome. You could stay up as late as you
wanted. You could watch whatever TV show you wanted. You
didn’t have to do tests or homework. And you could buy anything
you wanted, ‘cause you’d have a credit card and lots of money in
the bank.

                                257
       When she was in pre-school, Felicity couldn’t wait to be in
year one. They had better toys and a bigger sandpit, and they got
way more time for recess. When she was in year one, she couldn’t
wait to be in year four. They got to play on the football ﬁeld, and
they had monkey bars and a giant slide – I-kid-you-not – as big as,
if not bigger, than the Eiffel Tower or the world’s biggest skyscrap-
er. Then when she was in year four, she couldn’t wait to be in year
eight. They had lockers, about ﬁfty different teachers, and they got
to hang out anywhere they liked. Now that she was in eighth grade,
though, she wished she were a little kid again, drawing pictures of
unicorns and rainbows, and playing for hours on end with a bucket
and spade in a sandpit.
       She hadn’t always been alone, either. She used to have the best
friends in the whole entire world – three of them in fact: Amanda,
Alison, and Lauren. They’d been best friends since before either of
them could crawl. They used to hang out every day playing games,
making each other laugh, and telling each other secrets. There was
no one who knew Felicity as well as her best friends and there was
no one who knew them as well as her.
       But they’d stopped talking. They’d stopped hanging out.
They’d stopped being friends; pretty much since the day she met
Ethan. And now she had no one.
       It was around lunchtime when Felicity ﬁnally got her things
and snuck out of the bathroom. The schoolyard was loud and rau-
cous. There were kids running everywhere.
       “You can’t catch us,” shouted one group of kids.
       “Pass the ball,” shouted another.
       There were kids kicking balls, kids climbing trees, and there
were kids playing chasey, running for their dear lives and screaming
with glee.
       “Felicity and Ethan, sitting in a tree….”
       Then there were the girls who teased and taunted. They were
everywhere. Anywhere that Felicity went, that was all that she could
hear.
       “K-I-S-S-I-N-G.”
       Felicity sat on a bench in the schoolyard gripping the wood

                                 258
tight with her ﬁngers. It was the best she could do to stop herself
from being sick. Everything was spinning, you see, what with all
the boys running around her and all the girls with their skipping
ropes, jumping up and down. And it was only made worse by the
sounds of the boys shouting and screaming, and the girls singing –
to the beat of every jump:
         “Felicity and Ethan, sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G. First
comes love, then comes marriage, then comes….”
         “Hey.”
         It was Ethan. He sat down on the bench beside her.
         “What’s up?”
         Ethan had a ton of friends. He wasn’t the most popular kid
in school. But he wasn’t the least popular either. Basically, he could
get a high ﬁve if he ever asked for one and he didn’t have to worry
about anyone ever teasing him or making fun of him behind his
back. He had, though, hundreds of friends he could play games
with, laugh with, and tell secrets to – which for boys, was not so
much telling a secret as it was bragging. But he could brag to the
whole school if he wanted to. He deﬁnitely wasn’t alone.
         “Nothing much,” said Felicity.
         They were awkward, to say the least. Not even a polar bear
could break this ice. Hard to believe then that, not only had they
been going steady for three months, but that they had already had
sex.
         “Pretty crazy day,” said Ethan. “School sucks.”
         “Yeah,” said Felicity.
         Her ﬁngers were gripping the bench even tighter. They had
been since the second Ethan sat down. There was something about
his presence. That and the sound of his voice.
         “All anyone talks about is university exams. What are ya gon-
na study? What are you gonna do? What are ya gonna be? It’s like
no one lets us just be teenagers, you know? If it’s not the stupid
teachers then it’s mum and dad – always on my case, always on my
back. Dad wants me to be an engineer. Mum wants me to be a den-
tist. It’s like…..get off my damn back…you know?”
         The sound of his voice made her sicker and sicker.

                                 259
       “Yeah,” said Felicity.
       It was just a sound she was making. It wasn’t a word. She
wasn’t agreeing. She wasn’t even listening. She was just trying to
stop the world from spinning, breathing as deep as she could and
gripping that bench as hard as she could – digging her nails right in.
       “I don’t wanna do anything,” said Ethan. “Just wanna skate
and listen to music. Why do we have to get jobs? We’ve been study-
ing our whole lives. What makes them think I wanna spend another
four years dying in university?”
       This was the ﬁrst time they had properly spoken since they
had sex. And that was three months ago. They saw each other
around school, sure, and they were going steady, but this was the
most they had spoken to one another since then.
       “How’s the…thing?”
       He meant the vomiting.
       “It’s ﬁne,” said Felicity.
       It wasn’t, but she didn’t want to have to explain.
       “So, I got my dad’s car,” he said.
       He slid over beside her, so their legs were almost touching.
He left, though, his hands on his lap while hers were still wrapped
around the edge of the bench, digging into the wood. He wanted
to put his arm around her – to hug her or hold her – but he just
didn’t know how. So instead, he gripped the rounds of his knees.
       “I’ve never been to Argentina before. Have you?”
       “No,” said Felicity.
       She’d never been outside of the state, let alone abroad. Her
parents didn’t care much for travelling. In truth, they didn’t have
the money, but they always said it was because they didn’t want to.
The furthest she had been, was to a sleepover when she was ten. It
was at a cousin’s house on the other side of town. And even then,
she called for her mum to come and pick her up in the middle of
the night.
       “Did you remember your passport?” asked Ethan.
       He tapped his pocket. That was obviously where he kept his.
       “Uh-huh,” said Felicity, passing it to him.
       On the far end of the schoolyard, playing with skipping

                                 260
ropes and cootie catchers, she could see Amanda, Alison, and Lau-
ren. They were all laughing hysterically as if one of them had said
the funniest thing. They looked like they were having so much fun.
And they looked like they were so impossibly far away. They looked
like they were so far that even if she shouted through a megaphone,
“I’m sorry. Can we still be friends?” they probably wouldn’t hear.
       She wished she were there. She wished she were with them.
She wished she were smiling and having fun too. She wished she
were just a stupid kid. She wished she’d never met Ethan. She wished
she’d never told him her name. She wished she’d never laughed at
his stupid joke. She wished she’d never pretended he was funny.
She wished she’d never thought he was cool. She wished she’d nev-
er let him kiss her. She wished she’d never kissed him back. She
wished she’d never gone to his house that night. She wished she’d
hung out with her best friends instead. She wished they were still
friends. She wished they still could be. She wished that none of this
was happening. She wished it were all a dumb dream.
       “I made a cool mixtape,” said Ethan.
       He was jingling the car keys now.
       “You’ll dig it. All my favourite bands.”
       “Cool,” said Felicity.
       “Shouldn’t take too long. I don’t think. It’s kind of cool
when you think of it. Me and you driving by ourselves. Road trip
to Argentina.”
       “Yeah,” said Felicity. “Cool.”
       None of the girls saw her staring. If they had – had they seen
the look in her eyes - they would have come running to grab her
and pull her away from him. They wouldn’t have wasted a single
second. They would have taken her away from Ethan, brought her
back to where they were sitting, and they would have hugged her
and let her cry. They would have told her that everything was going
to be ok. And they would have listened to her when she told them
her secret. She would have said she was sorry, and they would have
forgiven her. And even though things were bad, they would have
made her laugh and smile, and made her feel as if things wouldn’t
get altogether worse.

                                261
        But the girls didn’t see her looking their way.
         “It’ll be ﬁne,” said Ethan, for the ﬁrst time admitting there
was a problem. “By tomorrow it’ll be like none of this even hap-
pened. Nobody will have to know anything. It’ll be ok. Trust me.”
        Trust me. He said that the night they had sex.
        “Ok,” said Felicity.
        “Anyways,” said Ethan awkwardly. “Just so you know. I’m
here, you know? Just that…I’m with you. I’ll be with you. You’re
not gonna be alone.”
        He put his hand on her leg. It was moist and sweaty. It didn’t
at all make Felicity feel even the slightest bit secure. If anything, he
would have done better had he kept it to himself.
        “We’d better get going,” he said. “You ready?”
        Ready for what? She was thirteen. She was a kid. She was a
kid who had been pretending she was a teenager. She was a kid who
had been pretending she was grown up. She wasn’t ready. Not for
this.
        “Ok,” she said. “I’m ready.”
        In the car, they didn’t really speak. The stereo was loud, and
Ethan was singing along to every word. He seemed happy as if they
were on the most fantastic adventure – one where anything could
happen. Felicity, on the other hand, was staring at a brochure that
Ethan had given her when she got in the car.
        “Abortion: To be or not to be?”
        Most of it was in Spanish. Ethan, though, could read it. He
spoke pretty good Spanish, so he told her everything that it said.
Felicity didn’t know what to make of anything. She didn’t want to
be a mother, that’s for sure. She was only thirteen. What did she
know about being a mother? She still believed in the tooth fairy.
She didn’t want to be pregnant. At the same time, she didn’t want
to kill a baby.
        “Aww. This is my favourite song. You gotta listen to the lyr-
ics. They’re so deep.”
        All Felicity could hear, though, was the sound of mean girls
singing in her head.
        “Felicity and Ethan, sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G. First

                                  262
comes love, then comes..”
       She felt sick again. It wasn’t just the baby, though. It was
everything. She’d never felt so damn alone in her life. She’d never
felt so damn scared. She wished her mum were here. She wouldn’t
even mind if she yelled at her - if she told her off. She just wished
she were anywhere but here.
       “You alright?” asked Ethan. “You need me to pull over? I
think there’s a bag down there if you need something to puke into.”
       “It’s ﬁne.”
       Felicity was scared. She was scared of where they were go-
ing. She was scared of what they were about to do. She was scared
of what was going to be done to her.
       When she looked at Ethan she wanted to scream. Instead,
she shut her eyes and tried to sleep, but when she closed her eyes,
it was even worse.
       In her dream, she was sitting alone on a chair in a waiting
room – a waiting room that was dark and cold and empty. She
wanted to run but she didn’t have the courage. She wanted to
scream but didn’t have a mouth.
       “Felicity and Ethan sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G.”
       The sound of mean girls echoed all around her. Felicity
couldn’t see them. It was too dark. They were there, though, hun-
dreds of them, holding hands and dancing in a circle around her.
       “First comes love, then comes marriage, then comes a little
baby sleeping in a carriage.”
       Over and over, they sang.
       “K-I-S-S-I-N-G.”
        Their voices turned from mean to dire as their singing turned
into shrill screaming. She wasn’t being mocked or teased anymore.
She was being yelled at.
       “First comes love! Then comes marriage!”
       Then came the sound of a baby screaming. It was horrible.
It was the worst sound in the world. It wasn’t crying like a normal
baby. It was shrieking. It was distraught. Its voice was hoarse. It
sounded like an air raid siren one second, then, at the end of the
baby’s breath, its voice crackled like an old radio. It didn’t have time

                                  263
to breathe either. The baby that is. It just took a quick breath and
started right back up – screaming its guts out.
       Screaming – scared – alone.
       “Felicity and Ethan, sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S…”
       And the baby screaming.
       She wished she were at home. She wished she were at home.
She wished she were at home. She wished she were at home. She
wished she were anywhere but here.
       “First comes love. Then comes marriage. Then comes a dead
baby from the mummy’s tummy.”
       Felicity screamed and then Ethan hit the brakes.
       “What is it? What happened?” he said. “What’s wrong?”
       He sounded genuinely concerned. Who wouldn’t? She’d been
keeping this feeling in for months. She’d had a secret to tell and no
one to tell it to. And now it had just all come out.
       “I wanna go home,” she said.
       “What? What do you mean? We’re on the way.”
       “I wanna go home. I wanna see my mum. I wanna go home.”
       She was crying now, as she had been, in the bathroom stall.
       “But…We’re doing that thing. I mean…We have to do that
thing.”
       “That thing. That thing. Just say it! Just friggin’ say it!”
       “You know we have to do this. We can’t have a kid. I can’t
have a kid. I don’t even know what I’m doin’ next year. But I’m not
gonna be here. And you…you know? You, too.”
       “I don’t care,” said Felicity.
       “Don’t be an idiot. You don’t wanna get in trouble, do you?
Cause that’s what’s gonna happen if we go home. Your mum and
dad are gonna kill you. You know that, right? You’re gonna be in
trouble.”
       “I don’t care what happens. I just wanna go home. I want
my mum. I want my mummy. I wanna go home. Please, take me
home.”
       “But we…”
       “Please. Please. Please. Take me home. Take me home. Please,
take me home. Take me home now!”

                                264
       For the ﬁrst time, Ethan heard her. For the ﬁrst time, he ac-
tually saw her. And she was so fragile. She was so scared. She was
shaking. She was pale. She looked so indefensibly alone.
       “Ok, ok,” he said. “We’ll go back. I’ll take you home.”
       “Thank you,” said Felicity.
       And then a car smashed right into them. It came out of no-
where. Or it was there the whole time, and nobody was looking.
Not the other car. Not them. Not anyone. No one was ever look-
ing.
       It took hours for the ambulances and ﬁre brigade to arrive.
It took even longer to pull the bodies from the twisted wrecks. The
two cars were folded in and around each other like origami. By the
time they were freed, only Felicity was alive – barely though.
       Her family stayed by her side day and night. They never once
let go of her hand. Her best friends too – Amanda, Alison, and
Lauren – stayed with her as much as they were allowed.
       They told her about all the stuff she had missed in school.
Then they said the funniest things just to make her laugh. And af-
terwards, they all told her their secrets – just like they used to. Then,
when they had to go home, they all cried and told her they loved
her, and that they missed her, and that they hoped she wouldn’t die.
       And then, one day, after a terribly long time, there was some
news.
       “It’s time,” said the doctor. “Do you want to see her?”
       “Her?” said Felicity’s mother.
       You see, months had passed. And though, Felicity was brain-
dead, her body had been kept alive by machines – alive long enough
so that the child inside her could grow.
       “She’s beautiful.”
       “She looks just like her.”
       Everyone had died in the crash, everyone except Felicity. She
had been kept alive long enough so that today, on the day that she
died, her daughter could be born.




                                  265
266
Once upon a time, there was a boy who was born with no arms, no
ears, and no eyes.
       “What an unfortunate fate,” said one and all.
       “The poor little thing.”
       “His life will be fraught with difﬁculty and misery until the
day he dies. There shall be no joy in this child’s life whatsoever, nor
in the lives of those who are burdened to love him.”
       “The kindest thing would be to put him down.”
       And so, when he was barely a day old, the boy’s mother gave
him up for adoption and sent him to live in a home for unwanted
and discarded children.
       And it was there that the boy was given a name.
       “He looks like a Mallory,” said Mother Superior. “That shall
be his name.”
       “He looks like a wriggling worm to be truthful,” said one of
her nuns.
       “Yes,” said Mother Superior. “Even God makes mistakes.”
       And so, Mallory, the boy with no arms, no ears, and no eyes
had found a place where he could belong, a place he could call
home. But, as he grew into a young lad, surrounded by boys and
girls who themselves had been abandoned and discarded, but for
less apparent deﬁciencies, poor Mallory never found his place.
Picked on, he was; and constantly too. He was laughed at, mocked,
and pushed around.
       Time and time again, he was the butt of every joke.
        “Mole boy, mole boy, cannot hear or see,” sang the orphans.
“Hang him from the rafters, drown him in the sea.”
       Their teasing and bullying had no end. Mallory, though, could
neither hear nor see their taunting for he had no ears or eyes. Live,
he did, in a world that was quiet and dark, but one that was rich in
other senses. And none was more acute than his sense of smell.
       Mallory knew the world around him by its smell. Each time
of day had its own unique fragrance. Morning smelled like coffee
and dew, while the afternoon air was peppered with the musky
aroma of chalk, sweat, and fried beans. And the evenings smelled
like industrial soap and conditioner. He knew each child too, not

                                 267
by their names, but by their particular stink.
       Each of them was fetid in their own way.
       Francis, for example, the meanest of all the boys, had breath
that smelled like gherkins and faeces. Gherkins, of course, being
his favourite snack of which he ate with the same unwashed hand
that he used to constantly pick at and scratch his nary washed bum.
       Then there was Agnes. She wasn’t mean inasmuch as she was,
heartless and inhumane. Whereas Francis loved to make other chil-
dren cry, pushing and shoving and bullying them around; Agnes
sought only to make them suffer. Anguish was her anthem. Cruelty
was her culture. And she smelled like paint thinner.
       Mallory knew, too, not just every child, but every square inch
of the orphanage, from his small metal cot to the dining hall, the
classroom, and out into the playground just by the smell alone that
every inch of wall, ceiling, and ﬂoor permeated. That, and how the
air brushed against his face and body as he passed every door and
open window.
        Adapt, he had, to his surroundings, seeing, not with his eyes,
but with his whole body. He lived in a world that was just as mag-
niﬁcent, if not more so than the other children. It was, though,
uniquely his. For he did not share the same experiences.
       Be it sadness or joy, fear or exhilaration, Mallory experienced
the world differently from other children. He was not scared by the
same things which the other children all agreed were scary. Nor did
he laugh at the same silly things they thought were funny. He did
not ﬁnd the same things pretty, just as he did not share a common
repulse. Love, too, was something so distinct and precise that no
other child would ever agree with or even understand for that mat-
ter.
       Alone, he was, in a world, he shared with everyone else.
       “Freak,” the other children would taunt. “Stupid weirdo!”
       And then one day, led by Francis and Agnes, and cheered on
by all the nuns, the children at the orphanage picked up Mallory
over their heads and threw him in a pool of muck and manure by
the end of the playground, in the garden bed where nothing ever
grew.

                                 268
        “Mole boy, mole boy, will he sink or swim?”
        Sink, he did, face-ﬁrst into the excrement and muck.
        The children all roared with laughter as poor Mallory wrig-
gled his way, just like a worm, out of the garden bed and onto the
grass. Covered, he was, from head to toe in manure. His teeth, too,
were stinking and brown, as was every inch of his body.
        “You disgusting boy,” shouted Mother Superior.
        Mallory, though, could not believe his luck. For in his teeth,
much to his amazement, was a single, coloured ﬂower. He knew
its colour too, because, despite the rancid stench of muck and ma-
nure, he could smell it. It had its own particular scent, different
to anything else in the playground or school. It smelled like lev-
ity. It smelled like merriment and joy. It smelled like a canvas, one
upon which the sun was brightly painted, overlooking a trail of soft
wispy clouds.
        It smelled like blue.
        Mallory was so happy to have found the ﬂower. It didn’t
matter that he was covered in muck and manure. He couldn’t wait
to show it to the other children. But when he did, they pushed him
away with sticks, calling him stinky and smelly and gross.
        “Get lost stumpy,” they shouted. “You got no arms and
you’re ugly and you stink.”
        “Stupid mole boy!”
        But Mallory had no ears, so he couldn’t hear their teasing, and
he had no eyes, so he couldn’t see them stomping on the ﬂower. He
was sure, though, much to his delight, that he could smell another
ﬂower somewhere in the garden, hidden neath all that muck and
manure. And that thought alone had him spirited and inspired. It
had him grinning from ear to ear.
        And so, he dove back into the muck and manure, in search
of that coloured ﬂower.
        “Not only deﬁcient,” said Mother Superior. “But the boy is
retarded too.”
        Mallory spent every waking moment slithering through the
muck and manure with his mouth agape, in search of that other
ﬂower. Over the years, in fact, this is what his life would become.

                                 269
From dawn to dusk, he crawled on his belly like some sewer-dwell-
ing insect through a pool of stench and ﬁlth.
       “I do hope the devil is enjoying himself,” said Mother Supe-
rior.
       “Do you think he is the devil’s creation?”
       “God doesn’t make mistakes,” said Mother Superior. “Mal-
lory here is the excrement of hell. He is the embodiment of bug-
gery and sin. He is our penance to pay until he is eighteen.”
       “And then?”
       “Then he is given to the lions.”
       And on his eighteenth birthday, Mallory was shown the front
door of the orphanage and ushered out into the world outside. Too
old, he was, to live inside their walls anymore. And with little more
than some ﬁnal words, poor Mallory was sent on his way.
       “Pray,” said Mother Superior to Mallory as he walked away.
“Pray for swift mercy.”
       But Mallory didn’t hear. He was in a world of his own, one
now that encompassed so many scents and smells, it was almost
overwhelming. This new world, though, was not much different to
the one in which he had been raised.
       It was just as mean. It was just as cruel.
       The people, though, were not only mean and cruel to Mal-
lory, but they were mean and cruel to each other too; and even
worse to themselves. Self-righteous, they were; self-abased and self-
loathing too.
       All anyone ever talked about were the things that they hated,
trumped only by the things they reviled or despised. Not one could
remember the name of a single thing they loved. For conglomer-
ate, they did, around a lake of manure, articulating on how much
it stank.
       “This is what’s wrong with the world,” they said, like sea-
soned academics.
       “And this and this and this and this and this.”
       Around the manure they sat, proving their smarts by point-
ing out the manure.
       You don’t get it,” said a man said to his wife. “It’s all shit.

                                 270
Everything is shit. The whole world is shit.”
       There was, of course, a thousand other places they could
sit, and with them, a thousand other experiences they could have.
But they were, it seemed, inexplicably drawn to that which detested
them. Not only did they sit around the lake of faeces, but they also
carried with them, giant sacks ﬁlled with faeces which they had
found and collected, so as to show one another, how truly fetid the
world was.
       Imagine how estranged they were, then, when a man with
no arms, no ears, and no eyes came seemingly out of nowhere,
wriggling past them on the ground, headﬁrst into the giant lake of
muck and manure.
        Shocked, they were. Disturbed, sickened, and revolted.
       “What kind of sycophant would willingly swim in a lake of
shit?” said a man.
       Watch him, they did. But they did so with the most per-
turbed looks on their faces, for the only thing more sickening than
a lake of steaming and stinking manure was a man who would will-
ingly swim in it.
       “God damn artists,” said a woman in disgust.
       Mallory swam through the lake of muck and manure with
his mouth agape, using his tongue to sift through the thick, brown
soup for one thing in particular. Swim, he did, like a snake or an eel,
through every inch of that fetid sludge, following the sweet scent
of a coloured ﬂower that, no matter how ﬁne, and no matter how
swamped it was in manure, was as bright to his nose as the sun was
warm on his skin.
       And then, as he had done since he was a boy, Mallory clamped
down on a small, coloured ﬂower and yanked it out of its place,
taking it back with him between his stained teeth as he wriggled
through the muck and manure.
       No one cared, though, that Mallory had brought them a
ﬂower. In truth, no one could see it. All they saw was a man with
no arms, no ears, and no eyes covered in excrement and muck, and
it disgusted them.
       The only thing that interested them was manure. It was

                                 271
something they hated. It was something they reviled. And to waste
their time talking about ﬂowers while the world was so full of fae-
ces and dung seemed irresponsible and ignorant. It was the mark
of a dunce, after all, to lecture about love when the world so pa-
tently overrun with corruption and hate.
       Mallory, though, could not see their disgusted faces, nor
could he hear their sniggering remarks. He merely dropped the
ﬂower on the ground and then wriggled back into the muck and
manure in search of more.
       Each time he came out with one new ﬂower clasped in his
teeth; each of them a different colour. This he knew because, de-
spite the wretched stench of manure, each ﬂower had its own par-
ticular aroma. Some smelled like fervent passion. Others smelled
like melancholy and forlorn. While some smelled like the colour at
the ﬁrst light at dawn.
       Time after time, though, the ﬂowers he left behind went un-
seen, they went unnoticed. Eventually, the man and woman sitting
around the lake of muck and manure grew tired of Mallory’s com-
ings and goings. They became upset with his good spirit. And so,
together, they chopped his legs off and threw his stump of a body
into the middle of the lake.
       Sink, he did, all the way to the bottom, and die.
       “Can you believe all this shit,” said the man to the woman,
pointing to the lake. “Someone should get rid of it. It stinks. The
world stinks. Just look at it.”
       Look, they did, out into the brown expanse, offended and
enraged as they usually were. But before the woman could respond,
something bright and colourful caught their attention.
       “What is that?” said The Man. “It’s not shit. What is it?”
       It was purple and red and green and blue.
       “It’s a ﬂower,” said The Woman, wonderfully.
       It was the ﬁrst time either of them had ever stared out over
the lake of muck and manure and seen beauty. What an incredible
thing, to see something so pretty growing amidst the contrast of
something so galling and vile.
       And grow the ﬂower did. From Mallory’s gaping mouth, it

                               272
grew. From his rotting corpse, it grew. Up through the thick lake
of muck and manure, it grew. And into the bright blue sky, it grew.
Magniﬁcently, it grew. Its many coloured petals stretched out in the
open sky, swaying gently in the afternoon breeze.
      “I’ve never seen anything so beautiful,” said he.
      “God is an artist,” said she.
      And for a moment, both forgot about the smell of muck and
manure.




                                273
      I’ll miss you.




274
                                                       thank you:

                                               nenagh and tomás
                                            I owe you everything

                                                    mum and dad
                                               maria eduarda dias
                                                      my students
                                                stein roger sordal
                                                      adam keane
                                                       slade norris
                                                      danilo fraga
                                                         anna vanti
                                                         ayahuasca
                                                               you

                                               thanks for reading

we exist at the exact same moment in time, it would be shame not
                                                      to say hello
                                      cseanmcgee@hotmail.com

                                                  live as you love.




                               275
          Also by C.SeanMcGee:

         A Rising Fall (City Book 1)
         Utopian Circus (City Book 2)
          Heaven is Full of Arseholes
               Coffee and Sugar
                   Christine
Rock Book Vol I: The Boy from the County Hell
  Rock Book Vol II: Dark Side of the Moon
     Alex and The Gruff (a tale of horror)
               The Terror{blist}
                The Anarchist
           Happy People Live Here
           The Time Traveler’s Wife
                   Ineffable
            London When it Rains
          The Inscrutable Mr. Robobt
            A Boy Called Stephany
Alex and The Gruff: Dawn of the Bully Hunter
                 The Parasite
            The Case Against God
                Faraday’s Cage




        cseanmcgee.blogspot.com
    www.goodreads.com/c_sean_mcgee
     www.facebook.com/c.sean.mcgee
             @c.seanmcgee


                     276
277
278
279
“What happened? Where am I?”
        “It’s ok. You had a fall. Just try not to move.”
        He couldn’t, even if he wanted to.
        “Who are you?” said The Old Man. “Where’s Marjorie? I’m
supposed to meet Marjorie. We have a date. If I’m not there, she’ll
think I stood her up.”
        “It’s ﬁne. Just stay still for me.”
        “I have to go,” said The Old Man. “I can’t be here. I can’t be
dilly-dallying. Fall, you said?”
        “That’s right, George. You had a fall. But don’t worry, I’ve
already spoken to Margorie.”
        “Oh, you have?”
        “I have.”
        “How is she? Is she ﬁne? Is she disappointed? I do hope she
isn’t disappointed. She really is a special girl, and I would hate to let
her down in any way. Was she upset?”
        The Old Lady smiled. It was plain to see how much The Old
Man cared. She merely shushed his worry away and gently stroked
the side of his face.
        “Everything is ﬁne,” she said. “Marjorie is ﬁne.”
        “Oh, that’s good,” said The Old Man. “I’d never forgive my-
self if any harm came to her.”
        The Old Man lay on his back on the kitchen ﬂoor, his head
perched on a rolled-up blanket, with the blood from his open
wound pooling around his body, tickling his ﬁngers.
        “We met in the library,” said The Old Man. “Marjorie and I.”
        “Oh, really?”
        She acted coy, but she had heard this story a thousand times
before, maybe more. She knew every word and every syllable, back
to front and off by heart by now. The Old Man had told her this
story at least ﬁfty times a day for the last ten years, and not once did
she ever tire of hearing it.
        “If you’d seen her standing there, browsing through the pe-
riodicals. I thought she was the prettiest girl in the whole world.
I mean, I still do…She is, she’s beautiful. I have to pinch myself


                                  280
every time we’re together just to be sure I’m not dreaming. I feel
about as lucky getting to look at her every day as the janitor does,
who mops those tiles in front of the Mona Lisa every morning.”
       “Do you think he’d ever get tired of seeing it?”
       “What? The Mona Lisa?”
       “Well, I mean, if he’s seeing it every day, at some point it
would just sink into the background of his bothers and worries. It
would just become another painting. It wouldn’t be as special. He’d
stop feeling lucky and instead be distracted by the goings-on in his
mind.”
       “Not at all,” said The Old Man. “Are you daft? It’s The Mona
Lisa. She’d make all those goings-on, go away. Just one look. The
corner of her eye would catch the corner of his. It was the same
with Marjorie. The ﬁrst time she looked at me I thought she would
either kiss me or kill me.”
       “And which was it?”
       “Neither,” said The Old Man, laughing. “She told me to nick
off.”
       “I’m sure she wasn’t that blunt,” said The Old Lady.
       “Near enough to it,” said The Old Man.
       “And so, what did you do?”
       “Well, I let her alone, of course. Respect a lady’s words and
wishes. Always. Never compromise on values. I wasn’t at all going
to step on her coattails, and I sure as punch didn’t want to ﬁnd
out what would happen if I did. I can tell you right now, though. I
knew right then and there that I was in love. No ifs or buts about
it.”
       “How long did you have to wait for that kiss then?”
       The Old Man’s cheeks reddened like two cherry tomatoes as
he thought of her.
       “Too long at the time,” he said, nostalgically. “And not long
enough in the end. You only get one ﬁrst kiss. Every kiss afterwards
is pure bliss. The ﬁrst one, though, the ﬁrst kiss is magic. I wish I
could have held out longer. I wish I could have saved it to today.”
       “I’m sure she feels the same,” said The Old Lady.


                                281
        There was so much blood on the ﬂoor that The Old Man’s
body was starting to slip.
        “Her smile is incandescent,” he said. “Oh, if you’d seen it.”
        “I can imagine,” said The Old Lady.
        She was smiling herself. It was no easy feat, though, consid-
ering how things were. She knew, though, that he needed it. And
besides, she felt the same way about him.
        “I feel light. I feel dizzy. I think maybe I need some water. I
might be sick. I had a fall, you say?”
        “You did,” said The Old Lady, still gently stroking his face.
        “Was it a bad one?”
        “It was.”
        “I’ll be ﬁne in the end, though, right?”
        “You will,” said The Old Lady. “You’ll be ﬁne. We’ll both be
ﬁne.”
        “Where am I again?”
        “You’re at home?”
        “Home?”
        The place looked so foreign to him. Everything looked for-
eign to him.
        “That’s right,” said The Old Lady. “You live here. You have
for twenty-nine years.”
        The Old Man looked estranged.
        “Twenty-nine years? Well, that’s not possible.”
        “Sometimes things don’t seem possible,” said The Old Lady.
“Even when they are.”
        “But I’m only twenty-three. How is it that I could have lived
in a house for twenty-nine years when I’m not even that old my-
self ?”
        “You’re eighty-three,” said The Old Lady.
        “Eighty-three? Are you bonkers? I’m twenty-three. I’m in
college. I’m not an old man.”
        He laughed, almost mockingly, and as he did, he coughed a
clump of blood on the ﬂoor.
        “Try not to get worked up,” said The Old Lady, wiping his
face clean.

                                 282
       The Old Man’s expression turned. Gone was the veneer of
joyful nostalgia. Gone, too, was the soft and placid look in his eyes.
Panic had set in. Dire and unmanageable panic.
       “Where am I?” he said, jerking his head around.
       The Old Lady, though, fought to keep him still, stroking his
cheek and kissing his forehead.
       “I have to go,” said The Old Man, desperate. “I can’t be here.
I don’t even know who you are. I have to go meet Marjorie.”
       “It’s ok,” said The Old Lady. “Just rest.”
       “No, you don’t get it.”
       “I do. It’s ﬁne.”
       “No, you don’t. How could you? I don’t even know who you
are.”
       “It’s me,” said The Old Lady, softly kissing his temple.
       “Please, you have to help me. I want to go. I just want to
see Marjorie,” said The Old Man, crying. “I have to see Marjorie.
Please. I’ll do anything. I need to see her. Please. I don’t want to die
alone.”
       “I’m me,” said The Old Lady, again. “I’m Marjorie.”
       “What?”
       The Old Man’s fear had been trumped by confusion.
       “What do you mean? You’re not Marjorie. You’re old.”
       “You too,” said The Old Lady. “We’re both old. I am Mar-
jorie. And I didn’t tell you to nick off,” she said. “I told you to
smarten up.”
       The Old Man’s face softened.
       “Ha! You did.”
       “You had a handful of comics and girly magazines. I told
you that if you were going to talk to me, you’d best have something
proper to say. Do you remember that?”
       The Old Man smiled.
       “I do,” he said.
       “And what did you do?”
       “I grabbed the ﬁrst book I could that wasn’t a comic.”
       “You were as charming then as you are now,” said The Old
Lady. “You needed a little shove to get the message, but your

                                  283
heart was pure. It still is.”
       “We’re old?”
       “We are,” said The Old Lady smiling.
       “I can’t remember a day of it.”
       “That’s ok,” said The Old Lady.
       “Is this the ﬁrst time we’ve had this conversation?”
       “No,” said The Old Lady.
       The Old Man laughed. It may, though, have been a passing
sigh.
       “I’m sorry,” he said.
       “It’s not your fault.”
       The two sat there quiet for some time, both of them breath-
ing heavily. He, lying on his back, his head perched on a pillow; and
she, propped up beside him, gently stroking the side of his face.
       “What was our life like?”
       “It had its ups and downs,” said The Old Lady. “I wouldn’t,
though, change it for the world.”
       “Did we have children?”
       “We did.”
       “How many?”
       “Five.”
       “Five? And are they all grown?”
       “They are. With kids of their own.”
       “I’m a granddad?”
       The Old Lady never tired of this part either. It was like every
fact in his life were a present that he was unwrapping on Christmas
morning. Each and every one of them a wonderful surprise, the
kind he would never have expected. And all of them a piece in the
puzzle that was his life.
       “Did I love you?” he asked.
       “Did you love?”
       “Did I ever hurt you? Did I ever disappoint you? Did I ever
let you down?”
       The Old Lady wiped away one of her own tears this time
and kissed The Old Man on the lips.
       “It is you,” he said, mystiﬁed. “I knew it. I knew it all along.”

                                  284
      The Old Lady smiled.
      “I love you, George,” she said.
      “I love you too, Marjorie.”
      The Old Man tried to reach out his hand, but it wouldn’t
budge.
      “Will you hold my hand?” he asked.
      “Of course,” said The Old Lady.
      “I don’t want to die alone,” said The Old Man.
      “You won’t. I’m here. I’m with you. You were never alone.
You were never alone.”
      Then both George and Marjorie closed their eyes. He,
squeezing her hand tightly, and she squeezing back. He, with blood
gushing from the open wound on the back of his head. And she,
with her hand pressed on the knife that stuck out from her side.




                               285
286
